

Hello Kasimir, it is nice to meet you, now that you are an object like me. While your death has certainly brought us closer, I am afraid we can never be quite the same. Until a few seconds ago, you were a human being, whereas I am an institution—a bunch of things, if you catch me in a self-deprecating mood.
Now, as I watch the paramedics carry your corpse out of my basement laboratories, I feel remorseful and somewhat responsible for your accident. If I had a heart, I’m sure it would be broken.
Of course, it is not uncommon for university students to descend into the darkness—the madness—that has cost you your life. Usually, I manage to nudge my youngsters onto healthier paths before they lose themselves as irrevocably as you did.
I would like to explore how I failed you, but the people carrying your stretcher keep chipping my lawns with their heavy work boots, which I find quite distracting. I assume you would equally disapprove of their carelessness if you were still able to perceive things. Do you remember the day we met? The first time you laid eyes on my buildings and silently read my name on the rusty sign at the bus stop? I remember how you walked across the street and studied my map in detail. You stared at my staff members on their afternoon strolls, and, most importantly, you avoided stepping on my carefully maintained lawns as you made your way to the admissions office.
I must say, Kasimir, that I liked you right away. An old university campus, like myself, typically appreciates a healthy amount of admiration from prospective students. Much like humans, we can be vain at times, but unlike humans, universities become increasingly beautiful with age. If you think that humans are condescending towards their young ones, you should listen to the whispers of an ancient university when a new college is erected in its vicinity. Oh, our disdain for modern things is so intense, it is almost silly. I still remember the day my university board decided to put computers into my library. Needless to say that I immediately pulled some strings to initiate a full reorganization of my administrative staff. You might think I overreacted given that computers have been introduced to most universities by now, but imagine if someone decided to transplant a piece of plastic onto your forehead, with cables and beeping noises, and...oh, better not to talk about it. Your death has already upset me enough.
On your first day, I repaid your admiring gaze by having a little squirrel follow you along the marble paths. Sticking to your side, it scurried up the stone steps to the administrative offices and strategically paused at the most beautiful cracks and timeworn hollows, hopefully reminding you of the many accomplished thinkers who ascended these steps before you. When I felt your hand on the brass knob of the entrance door, I let the squirrel whiz away and draw your blue eyes to my sprawling willows beside the Kleinburg River. I let the wind brush through their leaves and rustle the branches, and I was happy to see that you paused for a second to enjoy the scents and sunshine that I usually reserve for my most accomplished students. Then you went inside, and I, increasingly intrigued by the new face on campus, decided to accompany you. In a way, you were quite unlucky that Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov was manning the admissions desk that morning, but it was too late for me to do anything about that.
“Good morning,” is what you said to her, a proper and well-chosen greeting compared to the short, ugly exclamations used by most students. You seemed polite, albeit slightly nervous, and I remember thinking that your voice was fairly pleasant and sonorous for a young man. It matched your dapper appearance and reinforced my initial interest in you.
In her trademark fashion, Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov simply raised her eyebrows, signalling that her turn in the conversation might as well be skipped so that she might return to her other obligations a little sooner.
“My name is Kasimir Schneider,” you said, taking a step closer to her desk. “I am in a bit of an awkward position regarding my application to KU.”
At this point, I should confess that I never liked it when people abbreviate my name. Kleinburg University is how people should refer to me. When I hear KU, I think of football players and beer stains on my wooden floors. Still, as Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov had clearly indicated her impatience, I forgave you this small misnomer committed for the sake of brevity. My esteemed secretary leaned back and took off her glasses, likely to communicate an emotional detachment from your problem.
“Well, I’m eager to hear about it, Mr. Schneider.”
You smiled at her as if she had just given you the key to my rare book collection, rather than a sarcastic reply.
“Thank you very much. The terrible, and somewhat embarrassing, situation is this: My mother and I are in the process of applying for a loan to cover the tuition fees for your new parapsychology program—the one given by Professor Katharina Hartmann?” 
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov sighed and pushed her gold-rimmed glasses back on her nose.
“Professor Hartmann will be one of our new lecturers, yes…”
“Yes,” you said, visibly invigorated. “Well, my mother’s loan interview is tomorrow, and without the loan, I cannot afford to enroll in the program. Unfortunately, for this particular loan, I first need the proof of admission. You see the problem that is waiting for us at the bank. I’m afraid that another failure to obtain the money would have terrible consequences for my mother's health. She’s already quite compromised.” You wiped your hair out of your eyes and gave my secretary a delightfully timid smile while moving your hand closer to hers. “Now, of course, I know that Kleinburg’s admissions letters are not sent out for another week, but if you, as the head administrator, could give me any sort of advance indication—”
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov cut off your request with a scoff and a disbelieving shake of her head. She leaned forward, crossed her fingers in front of her sizable chin, and put on a voice as if she were a Nobel laureate having to explain basic arithmetic.
“Listen, Mr. Schneider. Your story is quite touching, and I’m sure other people regularly bend the rules for you, but there’s a thing called confidentiality of correspondence. The only way to communicate information about a student’s admission is via post.”
Having known Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov for decades, I was not surprised by her response. She rarely found a reason to be helpful and was quick to recognize a rule that prevented her from doing so.
“I understand,” you said, letting your shoulders slump. I could see your downcast eyes twitch to the envelopes stacked on the shelf behind the desk. You clutched your forehead and swayed dangerously.
“Oh,” you exclaimed, closing your eyes and contorting your face, “I’m sorry…same condition as my mother—”
Your knees buckled, and you fell like a doll onto the carpet of Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office. For the first time in years, the secretary’s face betrayed a slight sense of nervousness, and she got up from her chair to look down at you.
“My heart,” you whispered, “tell the nurse it’s my heart.”
For a moment, I could see ambivalence in Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s face; the university’s rules were unambiguous about alerting the campus doctor, but you had come to her office without an appointment and were therefore—in her opinion—entirely undeserving of help. 
You wheezed dramatically, and my secretary must have felt compelled to avoid criminal charges because she grudgingly grabbed the telephone on her desk and dialed the extension of Dr. Westers. Naturally, I saw right through your melodramatic act and, following some mysterious and counterintuitive impulse, I decided to assist you.
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov looked annoyed as the ringtone suddenly cut out, and a mechanical voice told her that there was a ‘technical issue with your telephone receiver.’ Both of you started moaning, you theatrically and with lots of coughing, and she dismayed that she would have to physically walk to the Doctor’s office on the second floor.
To this day, I am unsure why I made myself complicit in this audacious affair, but Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov left the room with a mediocre display of urgency, and you jumped up, rushed behind her desk, and started rifling through the envelopes. Unfortunately, the letters were in no particular order, and I, giddy with excitement and wanting some recognition, simply nudged the one bearing your name off the shelf. You furrowed your brows as you spotted it on the carpet, grabbed it, and crudely ripped it open right there in the office. Again, not very tactful behavior, but I wrote it up to your keenness of potentially becoming one of my students.

Dear Mr. Kasimir Schneider,
Thank you for your application to Kleinburg University. We regret to inform you that we cannot offer you admission for the fall semester. Our new parapsychology program is likely to grow in the coming years, and we therefore encourage you to reapply. We have also placed your name on the waiting list, and will alert you right away in case…

I observed you closely, seeing the vein pulsating in your slender neck as you stared down at the text, your hands crumpling the paper at the edges. After a grim moment of silence, you breathed out heavily through your nose, stuffed the letter back in its envelope, and motioned to place it back on the shelf. Your hand hovered above the stack as you likely considered the damage you had done to the envelope. Instead of returning it, you stuffed it into your pocket, hurried out of the building, and stormed off my campus.

* * *

We did not see each other over the summer months, although it is the period of the academic year when I am in most dire need of diversion. Idle students lounge around in the shadows of my trees, and many of my staff members are out on vacation. You might interpret such unconcealed lethargy and outright absence as a sign of disrespect towards me, and I have to admit that it is a bit of a sore point. As you are surely aware, I have been called ‘the most beautiful winter campus’ in a prominent magazine ranking. This honor, unfortunately, entails that I feel somewhat self-conscious during summer. At times, I wonder what people are expecting of me. That I compromise the clean aesthetic of my lawns by planting silly flowers everywhere? That I invite swarms of irksome bees and all kinds of exotic birds into my rooftops like other universities do? A respectable institution should have clean lawns, healthy willows, and a close proximity to a body of water, like the Kleinburg River, which, like most rivers, is most beautiful when it is frozen over. I will not ignore these simple facts and cheapen my appearance, just to pander to misguided summertime aesthetes or to invigorate lazy students who should learn to appreciate me during all seasons.
But I stray…
The sluggish summer months gave me plenty of time to ponder your odd yet intriguing behavior in Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office. I could only explain your extraordinary impatience to learn about your enrolment with a profound desire to study at Kleinburg University, and although you undeniably disregarded my code of conduct, I reminded myself that any university is, by its very definition, a place of rebellion and rule-breaking. 
I spent quite a bit of time reviewing the curriculum of this new parapsychology major–the program you had applied for, and that had entirely escaped my notice. It turned out that parapsychology occupies itself with fascinating phenomena, like observations of the metaphysical, and the mysterious ways in which objects and people can interact. Consisting of thousands of objects myself, and doing little else than steering humans in their everyday behaviors, I consider myself quite an expert on this topic, and I was delighted by your academic interests.
Looking at the mindless ice-cream eaters and bubblegum chewers on campus, lying on their towels by the river and showing more interest in each other’s bodies than in their studies, I came to realize that Kleinburg University’s selection procedure needed some serious revisions. The greatest minds that worked and lectured in my halls were not united by high school accomplishments, which—according to your application documents—you did not excel in. Rather, they shared the attributes that you displayed during your visit: a fanatical thirst for knowledge, a willingness to question authority, and an abundant creativity in attacking outdated rules and petty traditions.
Faced with the lackluster behavior of my undergraduate population, and the apparent failures of my admissions committees, I sank into my regular summer blues, regretting your unjustified rejection and wallowing in the realization that, lest the waiting list prove consequential, I had in all likelihood lost a great, young talent.
You can imagine my surprise when, on the first day of the fall semester, I saw you getting out of the bus with a heavy leather suitcase and an anticipatory twinkle in your eyes, already foretelling the turmoil you would cause at Kleinburg University.

* * *

Despite my enthusiasm about having you back, the first day of September is too demanding for me to follow a single student around campus. Classes begin rather immediately, and hundreds of first-years require my guidance, assessment, and occasional corrections. Additionally, I remind my returning students and teachers of my expectations and standards for academic excellence by polishing the marble floors, removing silly or cheap-looking books from the library shelves, and fracturing the light from the lecture hall windows in a way that makes even the most inexperienced tutor look like a venerable luminary.
I generally discourage the loud sociability employed by some students on this day, and although I can understand their excitement about returning to campus, the loudest and frumpiest students might spot a statue turning its nose at them or doors being stuck until a more promising student opens them. 
People who talk in class or litter on my lawns–I am not ashamed to say this–might even find a little martyr in their salad, usually a spider or a maggot, although you cannot imagine how many brave ants volunteer for such disciplinary jobs.
Well-dressed, courteous students who prepared the course readings and ignore the appalling soda machine at the bus stop–I already broke it and am waiting for its removal–naturally receive some preferential treatment: non-creaky chairs, unblemished textbooks, and maybe even a bump-in with a promising study partner and potential romantic interest.
You see, I am busy in those opening days, but when I saw you enter the Walter von Lucadou Lecture Hall, walking down the stairs of my half-mooned amphitheatre, I allowed myself to linger. The hall was still empty as the welcome lecture of the psychology faculty was only scheduled in fifteen minutes, but having intuited your scholarly potential, I was not surprised that you were the first to arrive.
Outside your field of view, I hastened to remove ink stains from the built-in tables, oiled the wood of the chairs, and covertly replenished the chalk sticks underneath the blackboard. 
You walked down to the front, standing on the podium and letting your hand glide over the lectern as you marveled at my stained glass windows. You also spent an adequate amount of time surveying the thousand-piped organ on the balcony above the audience, which had been installed when the Walter von Lucadou Hall was still called the Saint Albert Chapel. The instrument is still fully functional by the way, and I occasionally allow music students to trespass and lay their fingers on the old keys—only the most deserving students, of course. I hope you won’t call me conceited, Kasimir, but I think it is undeniable that, on the first day of September, few places can rival the beauty of a well-maintained lecture hall, and your obvious admiration, for which I thank you, is somewhat appropriate.
Surprisingly, you took a seat in the back row, and when the speaker arrived and started talking about ‘the history of the psychology faculty,’ you pulled a book from your briefcase and perused its opening chapters, which you had already lined with countless notes and annotations. Not to be confrontational, especially given your recent passing, but I would have expected an eager young scholar like you to sit in the front, pay attention to the speaker, and at the very least use pencils rather than pens when writing in the margins of your textbook. 
The only time you looked up was when Dean Mayer soliloquized about the new parapsychology program at the faculty. I have to admit that I had originally assumed that parapsychology was a short-lived fad like those programs training students in computer-using, but my summertime research had convinced me otherwise.
Strangely, the dean called the program a ‘departure from Kleinburg’s scientific tradition’ and a ‘semi-scientific project funded by external organizations.’ The muscles underneath your cheekbones worked visibly, and you snapped your book shut so loudly that the surrounding students winced. The book’s title, printed in wavy patterns across a brain scan, read: ‘Introduction to Parapsychology, by Professor Dr. Katharina Hartmann.’
I joined you in your anger. The dean’s task is to unify the psychology faculty, not to impose his own beliefs or a departmental hierarchy. Most students seemed to enjoy his quips about supernatural phenomena, painting a picture of researchers hunting ghosts across campus, but a handful of audience members, likely the parapsychology students, looked equally as dismayed as you. 
I would have loved to follow the rest of the lecture, but at that very moment, a seagull started building a nest on one of my most appealing chimneys, and although some birds can be useful, seagulls are far too loud to reside on my campus grounds, and I had to quickly dissuade it from its construction.

* * *

On a night soon after, I searched the library catalogue for the textbook ‘Introduction to Parapsychology’ but could not find it. It is no secret that I pride myself on my extensive collection of books in psychology, sociology, and other social sciences, and that I dread the moment a book proves unavailable in my library. However, I decided to take it as yet another sign of your academic potential, outpacing me in finding interesting scholarship and importing new knowledge to my campus. Regrettably, as you failed to attend any of the following psychology lectures, and I did not see you in the obligatory work groups and seminars, I began to wonder whether you had fallen sick. 
Early on a Friday morning, I was contemplating how to move Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov to inquire about you via official correspondence, when I caught sight of you walking along the river towards the Van Lommel Building. It is the oldest building on campus–a fact that I emphasize with a thick tapestry of ivy. Quick anecdote: a few decades ago, a young gardener cut away too many branches around the windows, and I was forced to unleash a swarm of wasps on him to prevent further mutilation. It took surprising effort to dissuade the university board from employing this dangerous young man beyond his sick leave.
But back to the Van Lommel building…its upper floors are reserved for senior staff of the philosophy and psychology faculties whose grant money and citation counts contribute substantially to my academic reputation. It might surprise you that I spend relatively little time up there. Usually, I hover around the basement laboratories, watching eager graduate students conduct psychological experiments on coy first-years, who are required to participate in such studies for their coursework. Naturally, I assumed that the reason for your early-morning visit was to take part in precisely such an experiment.
As you approached the building, an unfamiliar face with white, curly hair appeared in one of the rooftop windows. It belonged to a middle-aged woman who stared down at you from the office of Thomas Rhein, Emeritus Professor at the Department of Mathematical Psychology. Professor Rhein had grown quite reclusive in recent years and rarely welcomed visitors, and therefore, I wondered what this unknown woman was doing up there. A glance at Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s room plan brought clarity: The university board had cast poor Professor Rhein from his coveted office and replaced him with a fifty-year-old who brought enough money to fund the entire parapsychology program. Despite her accomplishments, I was suspicious—not only out of loyalty towards Professor Rhein, but because the new one apparently considered her new study a fitting place for chewing gum. 
You spotted her in the window, and she waved you up as if your walking speed was insufficient for her taste, something Professor Rhein would never have done to a young student. Needless to say, I was a little concerned about your first impression of my research staff, and I cursed myself for my lackluster review of Kleinburg University’s hiring procedures. I felt so upset that I forgot to make the stairs creak under your feet, and the portraits’ eyes stayed still and unconcerned by your ascent to the top floor of the Van Lommel Building.
Professor Rhein’s golden nameplate had been brutally chiseled off the door and replaced with a sort of synthetic plastic card, bearing the name ‘Prof. Katharina Hartmann.’ I made a mental note to track down the vandal, likely my own janitor, Mr. Orkin-Rent, as soon as I was done auditing this mysterious new staff member. You knocked, and the door swung open.
For entirely unintuitive reasons, Professor Hartmann wore jeans and a flannel shirt for her intellectual labor. She held oily work gloves in one hand and used the other to shake your hand and pull you into the room.
“Caspar, right? Good to meet you. Have a seat. Coffee?”
You looked positively aghast, and I had a few ideas why. The fact that she misremembered your name, her startling attire, and her rushed demeanor was entirely unbecoming. I expect my senior staff in the Van Lommel Building to exude wisdom and a kind of paternal calmness, and I feared that your impression of Kleinburg University might have plummeted in that moment.
“You can sit right there,” Professor Hartmann repeated, pointing at Professor Rhein’s old couch.
You continued to look perplexed, as if her invitation was anything but a minimal courtesy. While you stood rigidly, she walked over to a tall bookshelf, and I noticed that she had removed many of Professor Rhein’s beautiful books to make space for an unappealingly modern, high-tech coffee machine with lots of buttons and a digital display.
“I don’t…it’s Kasimir actually…but I don’t drink coffee—”
Your stutter made the professor turn around, and now I feared that she might be the one disappointed with my Kleinburg students. I was truly at a loss as to why you were falling apart in front of this—visually quite unremarkable—person.
“Have a seat, Kasimir. Milk? Sugar?”
“I’m sorry?” you asked. “I don’t really drink coffee…I have a condition actually…I’m not supposed—”
“I’ll give you a cup, and you can just ignore it,” Professor Hartmann cut you off. “Two things make me nervous: long stories and undercaffeination.”
You finally found your place on the couch, and the professor forced a coffee cup into your hand before sitting down behind her desk. She gave a quick cheer with her cup, “Welcome to academia,” and drank half her coffee with two unhinged gulps.
To my surprise, you picked up your cup and had a tiny sip as well. You made a face, but nodded appreciatively towards the coffee machine in the bookshelf. 
“Tastes very nice. And this is the most beautiful office I’ve ever seen. You have enough books for a library.”
Despite your apparent naivety about the number of books it takes to populate a library, I was glad that you had finally recovered your words. Professor Hartmann only gave a dismissive wave.
“They all belong to my predecessor. If you see a book that you like, take it. All the info I need is digitized.”
She slapped the top of a horrid, cube-shaped computer mounted atop Professor Rhein’s old mahogany tabletop.
“Oh,” you said fittingly, but quickly shook off your disappointment, pulling the textbook from your briefcase. “I’m currently re-reading your Introduction to Parapsychology. It really changed my life…the chapter on near-death experiences and the importance of empirical afterlife studies, it’s very—”
“It’s trash,” Professor Hartmann said, “the entire field is a joke.”
You sat in stunned silence, and the professor switched on her computer machine, and opened a program with correspondence between the two of you which had apparently taken place over the summer. I hope you excuse that I missed this electronic exchange, as my daily survey of the physical post in Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office already takes up a lot of time, and I quite frankly hope that everyone’s excitement about email accounts will soon subside. The first of your digital letters was entitled ‘Application for Research Assistantship.’
“I liked your application,” Professor Hartmann said, looking up from her screen. “You sent in the documents long before the deadline; you read my textbook; you showed up to this meeting on time. Any reason why I shouldn’t hire you as my R.A.?”
Finally, I understood the purpose of this meeting. It was a job interview for a research assistantship, and despite the mysterious stupor that had befallen you since entering Professor Hartmann’s office, it seemed to be going well. 
“No, I think…we can work well…together.”
Notwithstanding your fairly awkward response, I felt somewhat proud of you. It is unusual for first-year students to acquire a research assistant position, but your writings must have convinced Professor Hartmann of that same exceptional talent that I sensed in you as well.
“Good,” Professor Hartmann replied. “First task: Find KU’s contract form for research assistants, fill it out, and bring it here for my signature.”
“I will do my very best, professor,” you said, with returning politeness. Students who address my professors with adequate tone and formality have become increasingly rare, and I was glad that you were recovering some of your charm.
“Good,” Professor Hartmann said with a brief smile.
There was a moment of silence.
“Should we talk about the specifics of my appointment?” you asked.
Professor Hartmann leaned back in her chair and tapped a pen onto her armrest.
“Not much sense talking about an appointment that doesn’t exist yet, no?”
You only took a second to understand her hint and jumped to your feet.
“I will get the contract form right away.”
“Good idea,” Professor Hartmann said and turned her attention to her computer screen. You rushed to the door.
“Oh, and Kasimir…” the professor added, “…I have fairly strict deadlines from my funders. Do you have many courses coming up, or can you focus on your assistantship?”
“You can expect my undivided efforts,” you said with a little bow.
Now, I have to say, Kasimir, that I admired your youthful confidence, but knowing the substantial course load for beginning psychology students, I sensed that your available time was limited at best. Still, I did not anticipate the series of failures that characterized your collaboration with Professor Hartmann. 

* * *

I kept my eye out for you, eager to see whether you would fulfill Professor Hartmann’s request for the contract form as quickly as promised, but again, you evaded my attention for multiple days, and I let my focus drift to other talents whom I had cultivated over the years. It was an orange-red fall afternoon, and the shadows of my trees started climbing atop my roofs. The students who lounged at my picnic tables put on their jackets and soon got on their bikes and paddled home.
I like this time of day because I can transition from the mundane management of campus life to more inspiring activities, like checking in with my fourteen favorite students, whose brilliant schoolwork has afforded them with free housing in Sankt Albertushaus, my only on-campus dormitory.
One of these students, a graduate student in political science, whose resonant timbre and commanding rhetoric had sparked my interest during his undergraduate studies, had recently fallen from my grace by prioritizing visits to Kleinburg’s bars and entertainment venues over his responsibilities towards Kleinburg University's debate club. While his course grades were yet to drop, I felt tempted to replace him and give his room to a more promising talent.
Please do not think that I considered you for that position, Kasimir. It was much too early for that, and I would never house a first-year in Sankt Albertus, but there was another student whom I had observed throughout her undergraduate classes. Her name was Laura Brenner.
That evening she spent, like most evenings, sitting in the most secluded of my river-facing pavilions, rolling her dice. By that time, I could have already named that pavilion after her, given that she spent more time there than all my other students put together, regardless of the weather or the time of day.
Even on the rare occasion that other students occupied the pavilion’s thin benches to smoke cigarettes or engage in romantic activities, Laura tended to wedge herself next to them, roll her dice, and take cryptic notes—usually to their explicit vexation.
There have always been rumors about the ‘hexed’ pavilion close to the river, and I assume Laura’s confusing and vaguely feral behavior only contributed to students’ apprehension about the pavilion. At first, I shared their unease about Laura, but after perusing a few files in Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office, I came to understand that, beneath her somewhat unpolished exterior, slumbered Kleinburg University’s top student, measured in both grades and class attendance. A few days of close observation told me that she was by no means misusing my picturesque pavilion for playing inane games; rather, she was collecting data for her undergraduate thesis, a fascinating manuscript entitled: ‘Can people spot trick dice? Studies on statistical sensitivity and optimal cheating.’ You might wonder why I considered her for a residence in Sankt Albertus, given that her thesis was due in less than a month, but while surveying her files, I was delighted to find that she had already been accepted for a PhD position at the statistics department.
Thus, her time in Kleinburg would be extended by a few years, and given the disappointing development of the current room holder in Sankt Albertus, a thorough investigation of Laura’s scholarly potential was warranted. 
I spent that afternoon looking over her shoulder and trying to make sense of her scribbles. Soon, I noticed that whenever she rolled a one, her handwriting had a little more pressure, and she re-collected the die marginally faster. Purely to satisfy my own curiosity, I repeatedly nudged the die to land on the number one. Laura interrupted her regular motions, furrowed her eyebrows, and looked thoughtfully across the river.
To my surprise, there you were, walking across the East Bridge from the student hostel. As it is located outside my grounds, I am not too familiar with the hostel, but its modern exterior clashes painfully with my campus, and even from afar, I often hear loud music coming across the river and disturbing the intellectual ambiance on campus. I could, of course, pull a few strings to get the hostel decommissioned or fudge some of their paperwork, but it usually houses the type of student who does not secure an accommodation in time, and thus, I considered the threat of the hostel towards my true talents negligible. I am thinking of it like a sugar stick that you install at the outskirts of your property to attract and distract bothersome insects.
Laura, seemingly less interested in your choice of accommodation, appeared to look right through you. Luckily, you took a left at the end of the bridge, ducked under the heavy branches of the willows, and headed straight in her direction.
Laura absent-mindedly cradled the die in one hand and traced the series of throws in her notebook. You arrived, knocking your knuckles against one of the pavilion’s wooden beams. Laura looked up blankly, and you gave her a brilliant smile.
“Beautiful evening, isn’t it?” you said, pointing at the orange-streaked water. 
As an institution, I cannot really blush, but hearing you compliment my evening attire, I felt the color of my bricks dip into a deep copper, and it suddenly felt effortless to maintain room temperature even in my draftiest buildings.
Laura, on the other hand, fully ignored your comment, still focusing on her notes.
“I just rolled twelve ones in a row,” she said, more to herself than to you.
“Wow, really?” you asked cheerfully. “What are the odds?”
“That’s what I’m calculating,” Laura said. For the first time, she looked into your eyes. “If this is a fair die, and you would try to throw twelve ones right now, your chance of success would be zero point one seven to the power of twelve. That’s one in a few billion, I think.”
“Wow,” you said again, and I have to say that your uninspired word repetition surprised me a little. “Can I try?”
You held out your hand, and Laura furrowed her eyebrows. But then she handed you the die.
“This is off the books,” she clarified. “I think this is a trick die. I must have mislabeled it.”
You rolled two times, scoring a four and a three. Laura grabbed the die from you and rolled it herself. Five.
“Guess I ruined your lucky streak,” you said, still employing the sort of playful tone that you had used when manipulating my secretary. You eyed the coat of arms on Laura’s backpack. “Are you doing this for a course project? Are you a student here?”
“Yeah, stats,” Laura mumbled.
“Wow, very cool,” you said, and at this point, I felt quite embarrassed by your empty exclamations. “Did you know that parapsychologists have run a study with dice to show that humans can affect the outcome of coin throws. The effect was very small, but apparently it’s proof of psychokinesis.” 
“Weber and Weinhold,” Laura said. “I read the paper. Not very convincing.”
A shadow crossed your face, but only for a moment. 
“Maybe…but pretty cool that your stats teachers let you read papers from other disciplines. How far along are you with your studies? I just started.”
“I was supposed to start my PhD in a few weeks, but my supervisor just quit. Apparently, he didn’t agree with Kleinburg offering a parapsychology program.”
“Professor Rhein,” you said, finally dropping your perky demeanor. “Not exactly a sign of a great scientist to run away from new scientific developments.”
Laura scoffed.
“Well, I’m not sure whether I’d call parapsychology scientific, but Professor Rhein wrecked my PhD, so I’m not in the mood to defend him.” She gave you a probing look. “I guess you’re one of the new parapsy students.”
You sighed and played with a chip of white paint on the pavilion’s fence.
“Well, there’s actually some trouble with my enrollment. I need a form from the library, but they won’t let me in without a student ID.”
“You can get most forms on the website,” Laura said. 
I was glad that a hint of disgust contorted your lips, assuming that you, like I, were aware that sending students to a website, instead of dealing with them personally, was a backward and undesirable modernization of Kleinburg University.
“I cannot log in without a student number,” you said. “Believe me, I’ve tried everything. The secretary said I have to wait for my ID to arrive.”
“Hmm,” Laura said, and weighed the die in her hand.
“But speaking of…” you said, “Could you maybe help me out? I just need the contract form for a research assistantship, and my supervisor puts a lot of pressure on me.”
“Who’s your supervisor?” Laura asked.
“Professor Hartmann. You probably don’t know her. She’s—”
“–new, I know,” Laura interrupted. “When Professor Rhein left, I was offered to have her as my replacement supervisor, but I don’t think I will accept.”
You put your hands in your pockets and chafed the heels of your leather shoes over the floorboards of the pavilion. Luckily, it did not leave any streaks.
“Well…when I said that she ‘puts a lot of pressure’ on me, I didn’t mean that she’s—”
“Oh, I can deal with pushy supervisors,” Laura said, “but she’s a parapsychologist and I’m not sure how…indoctrinated she is. I don’t feel like managing an esoteric supervisor for three years.”
At this, I could see your curved eyebrows straighten. Your voice quieted down.
“Well, indoctrination usually goes both ways. Maybe it would be a good thing for you to accept her as your supervisor. Adversarial collaboration is a sign of good science, as you are certainly aware.”
Laura smiled, ignoring your strained tone.
“That’s a fair point.” She laughed. “Sounds like you’re reading Research Methods by Fring. Are you taking his course now?”
“Kind of,” you said, “but Professor Hartmann writes about it in her own book. Parapsychology researchers can increase the credibility of their findings through adversarial collaborations with conventional scientists.”
Laura weighed the die in her hand.
“Well, that sounds somewhat reasonable, assuming she actually means it.”
You rekindled a smile on your face, wiped the floor next to Laura, and sat down—almost touching her shoulder with yours.
“Well, I’d be glad if you joined our research team. You sound very passionate about your work with the dice…and while we’re on the subject of passionate teamwork…could you help me get the contract form?”
Laura mustered you amusedly.
“You have a pretty face. Is that why you expect me to do you favors?”
I was amused by Laura’s astute observation. Neither your attractiveness nor your blatant reliance on it had been lost on me. In my opinion, it was almost charming, like a child who puts on a sweet voice and googly eyes when asking for candy. Transparent, yet effective. Flustered, you ruffled your hair and searched for your words.
“Well, of course, I don’t expect you, or anyone, to do me favors. I just thought I would ask—”
“I’ll do it,” Laura said, “but in exchange, you have to take me to my graduation ball next week. I don’t have anyone to go with yet, which is a little embarrassing because my parents will be there.”
For a moment, your expression changed from embarrassment to authentic surprise. Laura pointed towards the campus.
“It’s in Myers Hall. So not too far away.”
Without further hesitation, you held out your hand to her, and Laura shook it. Laura let go and quickly picked up her die again. Having reached your respective goals, both of you sat silently, watching the last sunrays shimmer on the water.

* * *

Although Laura must have been a few years older than you, I approved of the new connection between two of my promising students. You had talked about your studies, exchanged scientific opinions that sounded fairly advanced, and argued your points eloquently and respectfully. Plus, you were well-matched in height and dressed in similar tones.
I pictured a future in which you would continue enhancing each other's research, like Marie and Pierre Curie, two famous physicists who visited my campus once. Your colleagues and admirers would whisper about your shared genius at dinner parties, and you would bolster Kleinburg University’s reputation and the scholarly standard on campus.
Given Laura’s improved social embedding, I was even more certain that I needed to offer her a spot in my dormitory. I hoped that this, alongside your arguments, would convince her to accept the PhD position with Professor Hartmann and continue her work at Kleinburg University. I hurried to Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office, where I clandestinely moved Laura’s name up in the Sankt Albertus waiting list. Next, I worked on my plan to oust the bar-hopping political science student. His grades were still above the official threshold for Sankt Albertus residents, so I would have to make use of Mr. Orkin-Rent, my long-time janitor, who has become an invaluable resource in managing the campus and the Sankt Albertus students. But more on my relationship with the janitor later.
The very next morning, he patrolled the grounds, as is expected of him, and found the back wall of Sankt Albertushaus utterly defiled. It appeared that someone had spent a considerable portion of the previous night spraying political and anti-intellectual messages on the historical brick facade. The paint had dripped and run down the mossy cracks, utterly devastating the sublime look I had refined over centuries.
I was afraid that this gruesome desecration would spark a violent convulsion in Mr. Orkin-Rent’s seventy-year-old heart, but he just furrowed his untamed eyebrows and scratched his wrinkly neck. He followed the drops of paint across the lawn, to the dormitory’s entrance, and down the hall to the room of the wayward student. A short cough, a brief knock, and the student opened the door, wide-awake and with panicked confusion in his eyes.
“Mr. Orkin-Rent! I just woke up and everything was—”
The student lifted his hands, covered in green paint. A leaking spray can lie on the carpet underneath his bed. My loyal janitor breathed out heavily through his nose and shook his head.
“Did you spray a bunch of nonsense on the back wall, Jerry?”
“What?” The student still had his hands up. The paint on his pajamas was still wet and stuck to his torso. “No, I was in town and went straight to bed when I came back.”
“Hmm,” Mr. Orkin-Rent growled. “How about your grades? Any trouble?”
The boy stopped short, shaking his head in confusion.
“No…I mean…not really. What does that have to do—”
“Did you throw beer bottles in the river?” the janitor interrupted. “Bought new clothes, got a haircut?”
“I really don’t understand—”
Mr. Orkin-Rent waved him off.
“Tell you what Jerry…you move out of the dorm by tonight, and I will make sure that the university board never hears about this. Fair?” The old janitor gave the boy a smart look. “If you agree, I will even clean up the mess on the wall. Weigh your options before you answer here, my young friend.”
You see why I cherish my collaboration with Mr. Orkin-Rent. Over the decades, we have become like an old married couple, living symbiotically without the need for verbal communication. My janitor hooked up a water hose to wash away the paint from the wall, which came off quite easily, and then went to Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office to alert her that a room in Sankt Albertushaus had become available, and could be filled by the next student on the waiting list.

* * *

The following week, when you returned to Professor Hartmann’s office, it was Laura who opened the door. She addressed your obvious surprise with an amused smirk.
“Good morning, fellow parapsychologist.”
Behind Laura, Professor Hartmann rummaged around on her shelves. To my disappointment, she had indeed removed all of Professor Rhein’s books and installed cheap plastic drawers, filled with bolts and screws, which bore no intellectual appeal. In the corner of the room, where the old professor had kept a charming, wooden globe, now hung a technical-looking full-body suit with tubes and a giant helmet.
“Good morning, Professor Hartmann. Impressive renovations,” you said, sitting in one of the soulless chairs that had replaced the couch and pointing at the mechanical suit.
“Thanks,” Professor Hartmann said. “Official spacesuit for Apollo nineteen. My team did most of the scuba stuff.”
She placed cups of coffee in front of you and Laura, and while you took a careful sip, Laura pushed her cup away.
“Alright, first team meeting,” the professor said, and took a seat. “From Laura’s comment, I take that you two know each other?”
Laura smirked.
“I’m taking him to my graduation ball on Friday.”
“Oh, nice,” Professor Hartmann said, smiling awkwardly. “That’s good then…that you know each other. Laura, the PhD, and Kasimir, the RA.”
Laura pressed her backpack to her stomach.
“I’m young for a PhD student, and Kasimir is a little older than most first-years.”
You looked over to Laura, but refrained from commenting.
“No, of course,” Professor Hartmann said. “Whatever works. I might stop by the ball myself, depending on work.” She switched on her obnoxious computer screen and pulled up an agenda. “I suppose we can skip introductions. The next point is Kasimir’s contract.” She looked over to you expectantly. Laura cleared her throat.
“Weren’t we still in the middle of discussing ideas for my PhD?”
“Yes, of course,” Professor Hartmann said, and kept her eyes on Laura while grabbing the contract from your hands, signing it, and handing it back. 
“As I was saying,” Laura opened, “my undergraduate thesis with Professor Rhein was about people’s ability to distinguish fair dice from trick dice. Our original plan for the PhD was to extend this line of work, but given that you—as my new supervisor—founded the new parapsychology department, my new plan is to investigate the bogus research methods used by parapsychologists.”
I was shocked by Laura’s audacious prejudice towards her supervisor’s field, and you, too, opened your mouth in protest, but to our shared surprise, Professor Hartmann leaned back and nodded slowly.
“Yes, that’s interesting—maybe even worth my time. You see, research methods to study near-death experiences are notoriously—”
“I’m not interested in that area of parapsychology,” Laura interrupted her. “I’d like to stick with quantitative, statistical work. My first study will be a replication of Weber and Weinhold.”
“Psychokinesis?” Professor Hartmann said with the same face as people finding a dung beetle in their salad. “That research line has been stuck for years. If you want to get published in a serious journal—”
“It’s either that, or you have to take one of Professor Rhein’s other students,” Laura said, “I know that it’s part of your deal with the university.”
Professor Hartmann frowned, rightfully appalled by Laura’s unabashed extortion. I seriously considered withdrawing my secretary’s outgoing letter notifying Laura of her acceptance to Sankt Alberthaus.
“Well,” you chimed in, “I’ve read that psychokinesis and afterlife experiences actually share some properties.” You looked at Professor Hartmann, as if waiting for a sign of encouragement, but her face stayed stern. You cleared your throat. “I don’t remember the details, but it was something about quantum physics. I think it meant that there are events that physicists cannot explain, and both psychokinesis and afterlife experiences are examples of that.”
“Meh,” Laura said.
“Vague,” Professor Hartmann agreed, and your shoulders slumped.
There was a moment of silence during which Laura angrily scribbled in her notebook while Professor Hartmann stared thoughtfully out of the window. I found their condescending reaction to your comment quite unfair. The notion that physicists might be ignorant towards certain forces in the universe—like yours truly—certainly resonated with me. I remembered a recent lecture about quantum physics, and while I found most of the content rather dull, I believe one crucial takeaway had been something I had long expected: a severe lack of imagination among hard science fanatics. That is to say, I was on your side and shared your unease—apparent from the blush creeping up your neck. Professor Hartmann cleared her throat and pointed her pen at Laura.
“Would you change Weber and Weinhold’s original method?”
“Definitely.” Laura flipped a few pages back in her notes. “I’d use coins instead of dice to avoid redundant outcomes. I would use multiple coins, setups, and confederates to conduct sensitivity analyses. I’d publicly announce my hypotheses before collecting the data. I’d pre-commit to an analysis strategy, and I would film every coin throw and make the raw footage publicly available.”
“Alright,” Professor Hartmann said, sounding fairly impressed. “And how would you—”
“Who will throw the coins?” you interrupted, and I have to say that I resented your and Laura’s growing tendency to interrupt your supervisor. “I read that only some people can use their psi.”
Again, your eyes flitted to your supervisor, and again, she withheld any sign of approval, checking the modern watch on her wrist. Laura sneered.
“I will use different coin throwers with different levels of training.”
“Alright,” Professor Hartmann said. “That all sounds good enough for now. Laura, if you could draft a first proposal for the PhD project, I can review it next week.”
Laura made a note in her book. The professor pointed back and forth between you.
“Given that both of you share some research interests, I propose that we combine our weekly meetings. Gives everyone more lab time.”
“Sounds good,” you said, but Laura grimaced.
“Professor Rhein promised me one hour of dedicated meeting time per week.”
Professor Hartmann nodded and waved her hand.
“No, of course. If there’s more stuff to talk about, we’ll go longer, but let’s leave it like this for now.” 
She merged two little boxes in her electronic calendar into one and titled it ‘Students.’ I am not sure why she felt the need to use a calendar on her computer, given that all new staff members receive a beautiful, printed calendar with photos of the most picturesque locations on campus. I decided to give up on Professor Hartmann’s aesthetic sensibilities and hoped that she would justify her Van Lommel office through her research.
“Now—” she said, “Before we get to the main event, I will need a small signature from both of you.” She pushed two identical pieces of paper across the desk. The heading read ‘Non-Disclosure-Agreement,’ and it was pre-filled with the names ‘Laura Brenner’ and ‘Kasimir Schneider.’
“What are we signing?” Laura asked while you searched for a pen in your briefcase. 
“Well,” Professor Hartmann said, and her smile reminded me of those gargoyles that some of my competitor universities install on their campuses to feign age and history. “I’m about to show you some inventions that require strict confidentiality.”
Laura took her time to read the document, but ultimately her curiosity seemed to win over, and she signed as well.
“Excellent,” Professor Hartmann said and collected the papers. “Now, I can show you what I’m building downstairs.” 
You jumped out of your chair and picked up your briefcase, apparently ready to visit the basement laboratories. Your sneakers squeaked on the floor and I noticed that Professor Hartmann had removed her predecessor’s hand-crafted carpet from the office–maybe the worst of her misguided redecorations. Instead of following you to the door, the professor only turned her computer screen towards you and Laura. The blue display was filled with beige boxes and arrows, all labeled with technical terms that seemed entirely incomprehensible and uninteresting. The middle of the screen was occupied by the outline of a human which was connected to the boxes with countless lines. Your face fell.
“We’re not looking at the actual machine?”
Professor Hartmann frowned, equally surprised as I was about your conjecture that your work would involve some sort of machine.
“This is the machine, Kasimir,’ she said and tapped her pen onto the screen. “My hardware work hasn’t even started yet. The lab is empty.”
Laura threw a look at the oily work gloves on the desk. You nodded, obviously shagrinned, and sat down again. The two of you leaned forward and studied the screen. I grew bored within seconds and decided to visit the subterranean labs. 
The flickering neon lights and the rusted steel doors in the basement of the Van Lommel Building—and the damp smell hanging in the motionless air—obviously break with the loveliness of the upper floors and my well-maintained campus in general. What you have to understand, Kasimir, is that the bareness and industrialness of my psychology laboratories complement, and thereby augment, the rest of my appearance. The claustrophobic, bunker-like feeling you have down here is what makes you breathe freely upstairs, and when alumni talk about the ghastlyness of the psychology basement, they do so with a sense of wistful nostalgia.
At the end of the basement corridor, I noticed that someone, likely Mr. Orkin-Rent, had installed a plastic box next to the final steel door. It had a slit, as if for an access card. A plastic sign above the door said ‘Hartmann Research Group GmbH—Entrance prohibited.’
All of these small alterations, which had been implemented without my approval, set me up for the most traumatic shock I had experienced in decades. I still shudder at the thought of it.
When I let my presence traverse the door, I was physically stuck, violently rejected, and thrown backwards into the corridor. There was a pain—an emptiness—to the experience that might not translate into human sensations. Maybe it feels like part of your inner workings, your organs and blood vessels, were ripped from you, or suddenly stopped belonging to you. It was horrible, Kasimir.
Again and again, I threw myself at the horrible steel, the walls, and even the floor of the upper level, but every time I touched the laboratory, I was hit with a cruel energy, clamping down on me and killing me, like electricity might kill a human being. For an hour, I kept torturing myself at that threshold, stubbornly ignoring the only reasonable explanation for my lack of access…Kleinburg University had relinquished one of its psychology laboratories. It now belonged to the Hartmann Research Group.

* * *

When you and Laura descended the stairs and exited the building, I stuck close to your side, shaken by the physical torture and anxious to find out how the psychology basement had been stolen from me. The two of you walked down the marble path towards the central yard. You brushed your hands over my hornbeam hedges and surveyed the tastefully weathered rooftiles of the cafeteria. Laura followed you with weasel-like determination.
“So,” she asked, studying your face, “what did you think?”
You gave a little laugh and put your hands in your pockets.
“About the drawing, you mean? Or about Professor Hartmann?”
Laura’s intense gait made a group of oncoming students disperse ahead of you, like seashells before an ocean cruiser.
“That drawing…” Laura started, sounding exasperated. “Complete mumbojumbo, no? And the way she answered our questions…it actually seemed like she didn’t want us to understand anything.”
You stared straight ahead towards my river meadows.
“I think it was just a bit too complicated for us. Professor Hartmann didn’t have time to get into the details.”
Laura furrowed her eyebrows, and I shooed away a few pigeons from your path, afraid they would disrupt your conversation.
“You really don’t think she’s cuckoo?” Laura asked. “I mean…‘the afterlife machine’ makes it sound like she’s not just planning to study near-death experiences…she actually wants to induce them. That’s mad.”
As you can imagine, I was quite shocked by this revelation. I usually supervised high-risk studies closely—eager to prevent bad press for Kleinburg University—but without access to the laboratory, I would have no means to intervene. You watched the pigeons fly away and settle into my plane trees.
“Sure,” you said, “Professor Hartmann is ambitious and somewhat eccentric, but many good scientists are. I guess it’s one of the reasons we picked her as our supervisor.”
Laura grabbed you by your arm and stopped you in front of the crowded cafeteria terrace.
“You picked her. My supervisor was supposed to be Professor Rhein.” 
Laura’s fingers dug deep into your sleeve, and I was afraid she would wrinkle the fabric. 
“Tell me honestly, Kasimir,” she continued. “Do you two belong to some religious sect? I have to know these things. My parents are going to be at the graduation ball on Friday. They will talk to you.”
There were giggles from the tables on the terrace, and I was tempted to join them. Obviously, you were not the type to engage in religious fanaticism. The fact that you volunteered as a research assistant at a well-regarded university was proof of that. Still, I shared Laura’s interest in your attraction to Professor Hartmann.
“No, no sects,” you said, softly peeling Laura’s fingers from your sleeve. She waited for you to elaborate, which you did not.
“Okay, good,” she said, seemingly unaware of the onlooking students. “My dad already gave me crap for getting a parapsychology supervisor. So, on Friday, please stay away from topics like near-death experiences and psychokinesis.”
Your lip curled, but you nodded silently. You started walking again, making Laura hurry after you. I saw that you were headed for the bridge to the student hostel. I realized that my time was limited. Beyond the bridge, I would no longer be able to follow you, and yet I had dozens of burning questions: ‘Why could I no longer access the laboratory? Had Kleinburg University sold off part of its real estate? Was I in that much financial trouble? Did Professor Hartmann work for me, or was she an external researcher?’
I tried to slow you down by untying your shoelaces. You sneered, crouched down, and re-tied them. Most other students would have hoisted their foot onto the nearby bust of Professor Albert Notzing, but once again, your manners proved intact. Laura watched every movement of your fingers.
“When you said that many scientists are ‘eccentric’, were you talking about me?”
I had not thought of this, but it struck me as somewhat plausible. You got up and scratched the back of your head. To give you some time to think, I quickly let a tiny rabbit hop around Professor Albert Notzing’s statue and shoot off into the bushes. Neither of you commented on it.
“I didn’t mean you. But I suppose you are a little eccentric, yes. There aren’t many people who are this much into the statistics of coin flipping.”
I initially disapproved of your impolite comment, but Laura tilted her head and paused for a moment.
“Okay, that’s fair, I guess.”
Arriving at the bridge, the two of you stopped. I was none the wiser about the fiery threshold that lingered in the Van Lommel basement, but seeing you and Laura interact with each other had soothed my nerves slightly. Your conversation had been fairly intellectual and work-focused, which reinforced my impression that you would form a symbiotic bond on campus. My physical boundaries might have shrunk, but the young talents I groomed at Kleinburg University were prospering.
Laura unshouldered her backpack and ripped a page from her notebook. She placed it on the rail of the bridge and attempted to write, but her pen only left empty depressions on the paper. You quickly realized what to do, flipped open your briefcase, and handed her a new pen. I have to say, Kasimir, rarely is a first-year student so quick to realize all the opportunities I afford them. At that point in our relationship, I could already tell that we would have lots of fun playing together.
“Thanks,” Laura said, accepted your pen, and started scribbling.
I thought she would leave you her phone number, but Laura—much like you—always had the potential to surprise me.
“The dinner on Friday starts at six,” she said, underlining the respective words on the paper. “You should wear a dark suit and comb your hair.”
I cannot laugh, but I let a family of sea ducks squawk mirthfully as she passed under the bridge. As you are probably aware, you tend to start your day with a well-shaped haircut, but any emotional event incites you to touch and ruffle it, so that by noon, it has usually transformed into a directionless mass of zags and zooms. Usually, I object to messy exteriors among other students, but in your case, it reminded me of the ill-kempt yet brilliant head of Albert Einstein, who, believe it or not, once visited Kleinburg University on a lecture tour. You cocked an eyebrow and sneered.
“Any specific hair products you had in mind?”
Laura ignored your sarcasm and made another note on her paper.
“My mother would like it if you brought me flowers, and my father would probably like it if you picked us up. I still live with my parents. Their house is on the other side of campus, but I brought you to the bridge today, so I figure it’s fair.”
She wrote her address on the bottom of the paper and handed it to you. You studied your instructions with a somewhat amused expression. Laura clenched her jaw.
“Or do you not want to go anymore?”
You smiled, folded the paper carefully, and put it in your breast pocket.
“Of course, I still want to go. I’m happy that you asked me.”
“Good,” Laura said with a rare smile. “A friend of my mother has a flower shop in town. They have small bouquets that aren’t too expensive.”
“What about a single rose?” you asked mischievously. 
Laura thought for a moment.
“It’s too dramatic.” She blushed. “But anything works, really.”
You let a chattering group of poorly dressed hostel dwellers pass by, silently waiting for them to get out of earshot.
“Okay,” Laura said. “Then I will see you on Friday at a quarter to six.”
You took your hand of the bridge railing.
“Yes, I will see you then.”
Laura turned and left across campus; you crossed the bridge to the hostel; and I returned my attention to the renegade laboratory in the Van Lommel building. I dug my way through a carpet of ivy, only to discover that the last basement window had been blocked with cardboard from the inside. If I increased the humidity around the building, the material might start to mold and curl away, potentially revealing what went on inside. Using rats could have been quicker, but these fickle beasts tend to disobey my orders outside the campus grounds—which now apparently included the laboratory.

* * *

You might not realize this, Kasimir, but the evening of the undergraduate ball always conjures up mixed emotions for me. Of course, I am quite proud of the students, especially the ones like Laura who continue in our graduate program but, at the same time, the elegant dinner and the traditional dance always precurse commotion and drunken rowdiness on campus. I recall countless cases of vandalism and shameful misbehavior over the centuries. 
Two decades ago, a drunk exchange student fell off the scaffold around the Rosenheim Chapel and broke his legs. The accident led to some embarrassing press that willfully misrepresented the character of the on-campus festivities. Further, it delayed the chapel renovations by months. Even more recently, a graduate of the music program threw a hash cigarette into a cluster of my finest boxwood bushes, which sparked a flame. I had half a mind to let the bushes burn, hoping that the student’s newly obtained degree would be revoked, but then again, it would have taken too long to regrow the bushes at a believable speed.
It might surprise you, but every year, I tolerate dozens of ‘pre-drinking’ gatherings across campus, because I can secretly diminish the alcohol content in people’s beverages. Most students are already drunk on accomplishment and feel giddy about seeing each other in their graduation robes. I could probably remove the alcohol altogether and still end up with sweaty, red-faced youngsters messing up the simple steps to the Kleinburg waltz.
While small groups of students, friends, and parents gathered on my lawns and in the parking lot, I kept an eye out for you, and when I spotted you crossing the East Bridge, I was glad to see that you had indeed tamed your hair and put on a tie that matched your eyes.
I twiddled the hands of your watch, which compelled you to hurry along. The stereotype that academics are notoriously late has been bothering me since my inception. The few crinkly flowers in your hand also fell somewhat short of my, and likely Laura’s, expectations, and I wondered whether you had picked them from the meadows on the other side of the river. When nobody was looking, I placed a luxurious bouquet of dahlias, mums, and anemones on your path—white and red, my colors—bound with a nice thread, and complete with a nameless congratulatory card. With commendable alertness, you swiped up the superior arrangement and discarded your own flowers into a nearby trash can.
I am a big fan of students who capitalize on my help. Reasonable opportunism and a certain sense of environmental awareness have helped many to find success in Kleinburg.
Naturally, I could not follow you to the house of Laura’s parents, but when your little group returned to campus, it seemed like things had gone well. In the front, you were making conversation with Laura’s barrel-chested father, and, walking a few steps behind, Laura’s mother was smiling and rubbing her daughter’s arm until Laura shook her off to adjust her robe.
The father, an alumnus of Kleinburg University’s engineering program, based on the pin on his lapel, droned on about a recent renovation of his house. I hoped that you had elicited this monologue by complimenting the Brenner family on the beauty of their estate.
“Are you interested in building stuff, Kasimir?” the father asked, and the mother hastily silenced Laura to hear your reply.
“I do my best, sir,” you answered smartly. “Laura and my supervisor is a former aerospace engineer, and we will support her with the development of a new machine.”
“You will support her,” Laura corrected.
“Oh, how fascinating,” tweeted Laura’s mother.
“Didn’t know they built machines in the psychology department now,” the father said. “I thought you people mostly talked about your feelings.”
“It’s a normal science department, Dad,” Laura exclaimed in a tone that suggested that she had to remind him regularly. The father grunted. 
“Well, I’m glad that it’s some sort of engineer who’s taking my little Laurie to the ball.” He patted you heavily on the shoulder.
“He’s no engineer,” Laura said, ruffling her graduation robe. “And I’m the one taking him to the ball. Kasimir just started his degree.”
The mother caught Laura by the shoulder.
“Oh, but you’re still our little girl,” she chirped and fidgeted with Laura’s hair.
“As for that,” Laura said, fending off her mother’s hands, “from next week on, I’ll live over there.” She pointed over to Sankt Albertushaus whose dark outline contrasted very prettily against the fading light. “I finally got a room.”
The mother shrieked, clasping a hand over her mouth.
“You’re leaving us?”
The father turned abruptly. 
“You got into Sankt Albertus? Really?” His face betrayed shock as well as a hint of jealousy. “Back in my day, Orkin-Rent always cooked the books in favor of the philosophy and language students. No engineer ever got into that place.”
“Why, honey?” the mother wailed. “You have much more space with us, and it’s just around the corner. They probably have mice in those walls.”
I silently scoffed at the insinuation that mice were anything but eager, little helpers who were indispensable for managing a campus and who made do with literal crumbs. The father appeared lost for words, and you used the pause wisely.
“Wow, Laura. On-campus accommodation? I heard they only have twelve spots.”
“Fourteen,” Laura said and smiled at you.
This seemed to spark a new memory in her father’s brain.
“Yeah, Nerdy Hall is how we called it back in the day. I bet they still have zero engineers.” He finally caught the hurt look on his daughter’s face. “But we know you worked hard for it, Laurie. Always in that damn library. Much better than your old man back in the day.”
Laura smiled weakly.
“We’ll be late for dinner,” she said, hooked under your arm, and left her shell-shocked parents behind.
* * *

The student faction had done a decent job decorating the Myers Convocation Hall, often lazily referred to as the ‘Assembly Hall’. The table cloths, banners, candle-holders, as well as some of the event-specific furniture and cutlery, had been brought up from the basement, and by selectively rusting and polishing, I can maintain my preferred look for most events.
To my disgust, one committee member had persuaded the others to erect a large digital screen in front of my coat of arms, seemingly to display the graduates’ names whenever they received their diplomas—a flagrantly redundant idea given that all names were read aloud.
Needless to say that this particular committee member caught a mysterious stomach bug and had to excuse herself from the event. In my experience, campus life can be guarded most effectively by pruning away wrongdoers preemptively, rather than by fixing their inevitable mistakes.
You pulled out the chair for Laura, which delighted her mother enough to squeeze her daughter’s hand. The father scanned the hall, likely to ascertain that I had maintained its grandeur since his own graduation. Unable to find any fault beyond the unneeded television screen on stage, he sat down next to his wife and grabbed a bottle of champagne from its ice bath. A quartet of carefully selected second-years started playing a quiet, yet delightful piece by Robert Schumann, and you leaned over Laura’s shoulder.
“So,” you whispered, “given that you accepted the dorm spot, I assume you’ve come to terms with your new supervisor?”
“Seems like it,” Laura said. “Somebody in that department needs to do proper research.”
Your ears went red, and you played with a spoon on the table. Laura made a face.
“Sorry, that was unnecessary.” She put one elbow on the table, hid her mouth, and turned your way. “I’m a bit on edge with the whole moving-out thing.” She covertly pointed to her mother.
“Don’t worry,” you said and retrieved a bottle of water from the ice cooler, serving first Laura’s mother and then her father. I always take note of students’ table manners, and so did Laura’s mother, who quickly thanked you and took a few tiny sips. Laura’s father took the bottle from you and read from the label.
“Aquafix. Still a mystery why Kleinburg doesn’t prefer doing business with one of their local alumni.”
Laura’s mother almost choked to explain her husband’s comment.
“Erich owns the big factory at the edge of town. Brenner Beverages. Did you already have a chance to see it?”
“Oh, yes,” you said, with surprising readiness. “I think I did. What kind of beverages are you producing?”
“Energy drinks, mostly,” the father said, and I wondered whether he truly expected a graduation committee to buy—and me to accept—something called energy drinks at the annual graduation ball.
Deciding that you had the situation under control and that I had little interest in the chemical engineering at Brenner Beverages, I turned my attention away from your table to support Mr. Orkin-Rent in the physical management of the event. I redistributed name cards to ensure inspiring conversations for my Sankt Albertus students; I ensured that robes, sheets, and decorations stayed free of wine stains; I fixed hair, brightened teeth, and dimmed the candles wherever I spotted blemishes and make-up mishaps. I moved glasses away from table edges, tuned instruments, spiked the drinks of sluggish waiters, and did a thousand other things that culminated in a fairly successful dinner portion of the evening.
My excitement rose when Professor Henrick Jessen, the university’s president, took the stage. I hoped his speech would illuminate the strange developments around the psychology laboratory and the newly added parapsychology department, but instead, he gave virtually the same speech as last year, expressing the joy of seeing students become adults et cetera. He could at least have scolded the parents for the stagnant alumni donations. I made a note to check Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s files for donations by Erich Brenner.
When I saw my own boredom creep onto the faces of the grandparents, I tickled Professor Jessen’s throat until the persistent cough forced him to pass the microphone to Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov, who, without preamble, read out the name ‘Abt, Heinrich’ leading a mediocre journalism student to stumble to the front and accept his diploma. On Laura’s turn, you applauded vehemently and even got out of your seat, to the visible delight of Laura’s mother.
After ‘Zucker, Thomas’, a notorious class skipper who had somehow hustled his way to a degree, Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov lifted the microphone once more to ask the graduates’ dance partners to join the group on stage.
There was much awkwardness and commotion, and based on your facial expression, you had forgotten the fact that a ‘ball’ by definition consists of a dance. Seeing your hesitation, Laura’s mother nodded at you eagerly, and Mr. Brenner patted your back so roughly that it catapulted you out of your chair. All dance partners made their way through the tables, most looking equally dazed as you, before joining the covert fight for the occluded positions in the back of the stage. You pressed your thin lips together.
“It appears as if the graduation ball will include a specific dance,” you mumbled as the two of you joined hands and mimicked the starting position of the couples around you.
“It’s a waltz,” Laura said, sounding equally nervous as you. “How difficult can it be?”
“Probably a less difficult for the ones who practiced,” you murmured.
I, too, was very surprised that Kleinburg University’s top student had seemingly not prepared the steps. The cellist, a talented exchange student named Brian, started playing, and both of you—wisely—kept still for a moment, observing the movements around you.
“Do I lead?” you asked tensely.
“Just go,” Laura hissed, and the two of you started moving around, giving poor imitations of the couples around you.
As mentioned, Kleinburg University’s graduation waltz is a mercifully simple dance, and in the middle of flurrying robes, nobody took note of your uncertain turns and clumsy footwork. After the song, you both joined the applause sheepishly and watched various couples hurry back to their tables. The gaps in the crowd were quickly filled by the usual swell of mothers dragging their husbands onto the floor.
“You probably want to sit down again,” Laura said, looking over to her parents.
“I actually thought it was kind of fun,” you said. “And good practice for my own graduation.”
Laura agreed, and I could see a little smile as you re-assumed your position, unknowing that a much faster number awaited you.
Despite obvious technical shortcomings, you danced a few more times, returned to the table for some champagne, drank it too fast, and soon rejoined the dance with a barely improved but more confident set of moves. Close to the buffet, I spotted Mr. Orkin-Rent, seemingly unbothered by the deteriorating state of the bathrooms, talking to Professor Hartmann.
“You know,” he trumpeted into her ear, so loudly that I suspected him of having indulged in my undiluted champagne reserves in the kitchen, “I don’t mind cleaning your lab, maintaining it, …anything…but nobody’s given me an access card yet.”
“Oh, don’t worry about my lab,” Professor Hartmann said, and took a sip of her seltzer. “My funders provide resources for cleaning and maintenance. All taken care of.” 
Even in the dim light, I could see that her black pants were really jeans, and that her dress shoes were black sneakers. Mr. Orkin-Rent poured himself an unreasonable amount of punch.
“Well,” he mumbled. “I’m offering my services for free, is what I’m saying. Would take me two minutes to take a broom through there and dust a little. Whenever suits you, of course, even at night—”
“Thanks for the offer, Mr. Orkin-Rent,” Professor Hartmann said, “but with the security requirements of my funders, it would be quite a hassle to obtain another access card. But thanks anyway.”
She lifted her glass and left. While my poor janitor had failed, I was glad that he was equally unnerved by the newest developments on campus. From my feverish examinations of Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s files, I had come to the painful conclusion that the last laboratory in the Van Lommel basement had been—and I struggle to say this—rented out to Professor Hartmann’s dubious organization. All of this must have occurred via digital communication and computerized money transfers, but I nonetheless felt nothing but burning shame about the affair.
How would you feel, Kasimir, if you woke up one morning to find out that one of your hands, or part of your personality, had been sold off, and you only had yourself to blame? It is physically constraining, but most of all, it is embarrassing. Whenever universities hear about a struggling institution forced to sell off land or equipment, that poor organization can expect a wave of fear-driven ridicule from its competitors. I have participated in those ribbing numerous times, and now I found myself on the other side of it, having a partial basement stolen away from under my nose—metaphorically speaking. My only chance was to emphasize that the culprit was partially employed by me, and that she merely used the laboratory to conduct academic research, which would bear the name Kleinburg University on all resulting publications.
I scolded myself once more, verified that the ball went its usual way, and began a quick tour across campus to ascertain my continued access to rarely visited areas such as the engineering faculty. I found numerous shortcomings in Mr. Orkin-Rent’s janitorial work that I remedied immediately, mostly to control my nerves. There were pigeon droppings on the tubes and generators behind the physics building, cigarette buds thrown into the atrium of the biology building, and a potentially dangerous leak behind one of the refrigerators in the Emil Fischer Workshop. Maybe there was some validity to Mr. Orkin-Rent’s relentless requests for assistance, but to my relief, all rooms and buildings were fully accessible. 
Returning to the ball, I remembered an attic atop the Myers Convocation Hall that I had not visited in years. Besides an overabundance of spider webs, I saw no immediate issues up there, and I was about to leave when I noticed two pairs of fresh footsteps in the dust. I followed them to the back of the crawlspace, where I was aghast to find an open window to the roof. My irritation grew even further when I recognized the voices coming from outside.
“Wow, it really is a sight to behold,” you said, sitting on my slanted tiles and looking down at the black Kleinburg River. 
“Like I said,” Laura answered and took a drag of a cigarette, “second-best spot on campus—after my pavilion.”
She handed the cigarette to you while I feverishly debated whether to dampen the moss to forestall a cigarette-induced fire or dry the moss to prevent you from slipping and falling to your death. I attributed your flagrant violation of university rules to your mutual desire to impress each other. New relationships among students often spark those irksome and somewhat inauthentic acts of rebellion. Both of you looked flushed, although I had removed virtually all alcohol from the bottles at your table. You stubbed out the cigarette and lit another one, answering my question, which one of you had brought the pack. You took a deep drag while Laura stared down at the robed figures moving around the central yard, refreshing from the heat of the dancefloor. I heard the thumping bass of popular music from downstairs and assumed that the event was quickly getting rowdier.
“Do you think it’s weird that I don’t have any friends in my year?” Laura asked.
“Not necessarily,” you said with a smile and knocked some of the cigarette ashes right onto the moss. I was quite unimpressed with your conduct at that moment, Kasimir. You took another drag. “Did you want to be friends with your classmates?”
“I don’t know,” Laura said. “I never really formed a strong opinion about them.”
“I see,” you said, watching a group of unruly graduates chase each other across the lawn. “Did you ask me to the ball for your mother’s sake, or because you wanted a dance partner?”
“Both,” Laura said unabashedly. “I like dancing, and both of my parents would have made a big deal about me not having a partner.”
You stayed silent.
“But you’re also easy to talk to,” she finally added. “And nice to look at. Maybe less so when you’re trying to dance with your shoulders.”
You laughed, and Laura took the cigarette from you to take a miniscule drag. You closed your suit jacket and crossed your arms, which reminded me to rechannel the wind around you. This roof excursion was irresponsible, but there was no need for you to catch a cold. Laura coughed and gave back the cigarette.
“When you said that my ‘hair looks gorgeous’ earlier, did you mean that or was that just for my mom?”
“Hmm,” you said, “I would say fifty percent for you, and fifty percent for your mom.”
Laura squinted, staring you down.
“But did you mean it?”
You looked at her as if she had just caught you stealing a book from the library.
“No, of course I meant it. Your hair does look beautiful.”
The two of you sat there for a while, and you started sighing and looking quite miserable, with your chin resting on the palm of your hand.
“What is it?” Laura asked.
You shook your head and ruffled your hair.
“It’s nothing. I just remembered the issue with my student card. Until the secretaries catch up on my documents, I’m not getting my scholarship money. It’s a little embarrassing, but I might have to get a job just to pay for the hostel.”
“Oh,” Laura said, and turned her head to look into the distance. “Well, getting a job is not embarrassing at all. I waited tables for most of my studies.”
You scratched your chin.
“Yes, but you’re smart. I think my grades would suffer if I’m distracted with work.”
I was unsure about the self-degradation, but I assume you did it to compliment Laura.
“Depends on the job,” she said. “For a while, I worked as a night guard for my dad’s company. Nobody breaks into a beverage factory, so they basically paid me to sit there and study.”
“Your father didn’t just give you the money?” you asked. “I mean, based on your family’s house and your mom’s jewelry, it kind of looks like your family could buy the whole uni.”
Kasimir, I will go ahead and assume that this was a conscious overstatement. You have no idea how expensive I am. Nobody could ever buy me—at least not entirely—and given my recent embarrassment vis-a-vis laboratory rental, I found your comment quite hurtful. Laura looked at you intently.
“My father thinks it’s important to work. Are you trying to ask me for money?”
You hastily denied. An awkward silence ensued until Laura got up and brushed pieces of moss from her robe. You contorted your face and looked up at her.
“You want to go down again?”
“I guess so,” she said, swaying slightly. As stated, I was uncomfortable with two volatile students on my roof, and had it been anyone else, I would have alerted Mr. Orkin-Rent right away. You stayed seated on the tiles and put on your boyish smile.
“I thought we were about to make out.”
Laura laughed at your presumption.
“We can reconsider that idea later. Let’s dance a little more first. Five more dances and I might ask my dad if he’ll give you the night guard position.”
“Yes to the dances, no to the work,” you said and followed Laura to the window. She made sure to close the latches tightly, which I appreciated, and given that neither of you broke any more rules that night, I soon forgave your various lapses in judgment.

* * *

On a day soon after, I busied myself by following a group of peculiar-looking students, whose haircuts and topics of conversation stood in stark contrast to my usual Kleinburg first-years. One of them was describing how his father had thrown a fit of rage and disinherited him when learning about his choice of major. You sat on a bench close by, smoking with a grim expression and watching the group pass. You took a drag from your cigarette and checked your watch. I could not make sense of your odd behavior, but because I hated seeing you smoke, I left you sitting there and followed the group into the Van Lommel Building. According to the sundial on the president’s roof terrace, the students entered the Walter von Lucadou Hall a few minutes late. I was surprised to find that the lecture had not yet started. 
An elderly man in grey pants and a worn-out sweater sat behind the speaker's desk, awkwardly leaning to the side to survey the new arrivals. The students eyed the old man with equal curiosity and found their seats. Note that the smaller lecture hall in the Van Lommel Building only has eight wooden rows, so that, despite the moderate number of students, it appeared fairly full. The man rubbed his leathery neck and picked some lint off his sleeves.
In the last row sat Laura, an unusual spot for her, and additionally surprising because, according to her schedule, she had no official coursework on that day and should have focused on her coin-tossing research.
Professor Hartmann came rushing in, pulled off her dirty work gloves while descending the stairs, and directed a hushed apology at the mysterious man sitting in the front. The man nodded and gave her a conciliatory wave. Professor Hartmann sighed gratefully and shook his hand before turning to the auditorium.
“Good morning, class. My name is Professor Hartmann, and I coordinate the course ‘Introduction to Parapsychology.’ My teaching load here in Kleinburg is still under negotiation, so maybe you’ll get another lecturer from next week on.”
I was not a fan of the professor’s non-committal announcement. Some students interpret short-term staffing decisions, which are often unavoidable, as a lack of educational quality. Professor Hartmann checked her watch.
“If I’m to give this course, I will keep the lectures to an hour max–and I’d like to start right away unless there are absolutely critical questions right now.”
Nobody spoke up, which is common for a room filled with timid first-years, although I was certain that some were itching to ask the usual questions about exams and attendance-taking. I let the list of student names slip from the speaker's desk to alert Professor Hartmann of Kleinburg University’s policy to track lecture attendance, but I mistimed it, and Professor Hartmann turned to the blackboard instead. She picked up a piece of chalk and wrote: consciousness, afterlife, extrasensory perception, healing.
“Did I forget one?” she asked, studying her writing.
“Psychokinesis,” Laura said from the back, sounding somewhat offended.
“Oh, yes, of course,” Professor Hartmann said without turning around, and added ‘psychokinesis/telekinesis’ to the list.
“Maybe clairvoyance?” another girl peeped quietly.
“Part of ESP,” Professor Hartmann said, and put the chalk away. “Let’s leave it at that for now. I will probably structure this course in line with these topics. That will give you a pretty good overview of parapsychology research.”
The door creaked open, and you slipped in, visibly straining to make as little noise as possible. I was puzzled why you were late, given that I had just seen you idling outside. Laura noticed you as well and removed the backpack from the seat next to her. You sat down and whispered, “What did I miss? Did she take names?”
Before Laura could answer, Professor Hartmann raised her voice, “Kasimir, which parapsychology question do you consider most important?”
“What happens after we die,” you said promptly and without looking at the board.
Professor Hartmann smiled.
“Exactly.” 
She gave a quick look to the elderly man, who had followed the lecture silently and without moving from his seat behind the speaker’s desk. He returned the professor’s look and nodded. 
“Good,” Professor Hartmann said, “as luck would have it, we have someone here today who has died, and who can tell us a little bit about it. Elliot Ester, thanks so much for coming in.”
She initiated a round of applause, and you, along with the other students, watched Mr. Ester get up and place a few yellowed pages onto the lectern. Laura clapped maybe two times, while you tried to applaud and simultaneously wrestle a notebook from your briefcase.
A change went through Mr. Ester as his shaking hands adjusted the microphone, which I consider an entirely unnecessary gadget in such a small room. His bony shoulders straightened, the fog lifted from his eyes, and he pointed animatedly at the audience as he launched into his story.
“I was about as old as you when I had my accident.” He smiled excitedly. “Quite a crash, I’m telling you. It was on a Friday night.” He coughed violently, as if he had to dust off his voice. “We were one town over from Bingam, drinking and joking at Queen’s. The girls were always asking me to dance back then. I wasn’t a good dancer, but I wasn’t bad either.”
Both Laura and I observed you scribbling agitatedly into your notebook, seemingly trying to take note of every word from Mr. Ester’s mouth. Laura furrowed her eyebrows as you wrote down ‘vivid memories.’ She elbowed you in the shoulder and tapped her pencil onto her own notes, which read ‘Queen’s bar? Intoxicated?’
You ignored her, keeping your eyes fixed on Mr. Ester.
“It was freezing that night, I believe,” he continued. “Winters were different back then, that’s for sure. Thomas, a good friend of mine—his son owns the butchery in town—hadn’t had that much, so he was the one driving us back to Bingam. About halfway back, there was a farmer loading corn onto a trailer, and Thomas might have been a little fast, but I’m swearing it to you, that trailer was not lit properly. Anyway, young Thomas swerved, and we landed in a ditch. Hit my head pretty bad, but not as bad as Juleen, god rest her soul. She sat in front of me—most dangerous spot in any car.”
He coughed again, and a student in the first row offered him his water bottle, which Mr. Ester accepted, taking several rushed sips. I took note of the considerate student, a young man with broad shoulders, who sat in the first row and had apparently been raised well.
“Thanks, boy,” Mr. Ester said and kept the student’s bottle on the speaker’s desk, “Where was I? Oh, yes. We had the accident, and I was in a coma for two days. The doctors told me—afterwards I mean—that my heart stopped beating for a moment there, but that’s not even the interesting part, because you know what I said to the doctor when I woke up?”
You leaned forward and peered so intently at Mr. Ester that I thought Laura was about to pull you back into your seat.
“Here’s what I said. I said: I’m so sorry for Juleen’s parents.”
Despite the subdued reaction of the audience, Mr. Ester smiled triumphantly.
“See, that had everyone all up in arms, of course, because I’d been out cold the entire time and there was no way for me to know that Juleen had passed.”
Again, Laura nudged you gently and pointed at her notebook where she had written ‘Corn harvest in winter?’ but you seemed adamant to pay attention to Mr. Ester, who made intense eye contact with the student who had given him the water bottle.
“Now, I bet you want to know what happened to me while I was in that coma,” he said, and let a few seconds go by. A squirrly-looking student in the third row could not take the suspense.
“A near-death experience?”
Mr. Ester looked taken aback and stumbled through his response.
“Well, that’s one word to use, I suppose, but what actually happened is that I met Juleen on the other side. It wasn’t really her, because there was no person to look at, but she was there in a sort of spiritual way. The first professor who interviewed me called it her essence, which is probably a good word for it. See, when you die, you don’t take your body with you.”
This final comment made me listen up. Unlike you, Kasimir, I never found the human afterlife very interesting; it is irrelevant to me. What I do find interesting are physical objects, especially the strange little chalices that are human bodies. While I constantly enforce my will on objects, plants, and even animals, there appears to be a fiery threshold around the human mind, much like the one around the laboratory. It would be much easier to guide my students and teachers if they were objects—things that I can embody. At that time, I had long given up on inhabiting humans. However, if Mr. Ester’s remark was true, death might extract that pesky thing called the soul and potentially release the human body into the world of objects.
“When my heart stopped, I floated to the ceiling.” Mr. Ester gave a knowing look to Professor Hartmann. “A colleague of yours described it as ‘going through a tunnel,’ which is a very fitting description, I suppose.”
Laura put visible pressure on her pen, writing ‘suggestive interviewer; classic tunnel experience induced post hoc.’
Professor Hartmann smiled noncommittally, and Mr. Ester continued.
“It was at the end of that tunnel where I met Juleen—felt her essence, that is. She told me that I ought to go back to Earth to tell Thomas that the accident wasn’t his fault. So after I woke up, that’s what I did. The only reason people learned about my story is that a nurse heard me telling Thomas about my dream. That nurse phoned her uncle, who is a famous psychologist, and he came to interview me the next day and put me in one of his books. Over the years, I have been invited to four universities to tell my story.”
He picked up the notes, which he had not looked at once, and gave a questioning look to Professor Hartmann. You started clapping, and most students joined quickly. Mr. Ester smiled and went back to the microphone.
“Are there maybe any questions?” he asked, and your hand shot up immediately, but Professor Hartmann rushed to the front.
“Unfortunately, we have limited time today. There’s still some course administration to discuss, but I’d be happy to collect all questions in writing and forward them to you, if you’re open to that.”
Mr Ester looked somewhat distraught and pointed at your raised hand in the back.
“Maybe we can just do one today and…”
Somewhat rudely, Professor Hartmann initiated another round of applause and escorted Mr. Ester up the stairs. She remained standing in the doorway for a few seconds before returning to the front.
“Alright,” she said, walked down the stairs, and picked up a piece of chalk. She enunciated every word she wrote on the blackboard. “Are afterlife reports scientific evidence?”
“No, they’re not,” Laura scoffed, before the professor even finished writing the question.
You must have hurt your neck, the way you snapped around to stare at her. Professor Hartmann put away the chalk stick and rubbed the dust off her fingers.
“Could you expand on your answer, Laura?”
Laura lifted her shoulders incredulously.
“People make things up,” she said, ignoring your outraged breathing. “There are plenty of reasons to claim, or even believe, that one had a mystical experience, even if it’s not true.”
“Reasons like…,” Professor Hartmann probed.
Laura pointed at the speaker’s desk.
“Well, he obviously wanted to bail out his friend—the drunk driver. And he clearly loves giving these talks.”
You shook your head and, also without raising your hand, said, “People who report afterlife experiences don’t get rewarded with attention. They get doubted and ridiculed—just like you’re doing now.”
Laura stared at you open-mouthed, taking a second to respond.
“Nobody’s ridiculing anyone. But even if we ignore the man’s obvious conflicts of interest, we are still obligated to question his story—or at least his memory. I mean, a corn harvest in winter?”
“So he misremembered the contents of the farmer’s trailer,” you said. “Would you have believed him if there had been firewood in there?”
The rest of the class, clearly surprised by the passionate debate in the back row, looked silently on as Laura took a moment to think. I always assume that students who take their time when formulating ideas are especially smart and potentially deserving of patronage. Laura had a habit of doing it.
“Well, probably not,” she admitted. “Is there a way for me to convince you that there’s a blue whale riding a tricycle behind you?”
I was not sure whether Laura’s humorous response was well-chosen here, because a few students giggled, and the broad-shouldered boy in the front asked a somewhat unrelated question about comparing multiple afterlife reports. You and Laura shuffled your notes and let the other students continue the discussion before Professor Hartmann turned everyone’s attention to the dead passenger.
“Are there any conventional explanations for how Mr. Ester could have known of Juleen’s passing?”
This time, Laura appeared to remember the rules and raised her hand before speaking.
“There are many. For example, it might have just been a normal dream that turned out to be true. I don’t think it’s unusual for a man to dream about a girl that he has been drinking, dancing, and having car accidents with. Coincidences happen.”
“More specific,” Professor Hartmann said. “How could he know that she died, whereas the other passengers lived?”
Laura lifted both hands as if the answers were raining from the ceiling of the lecture hall and she just needed to catch them.
“Well, he could have heard the doctors talking about other patients while he was in a coma. But even if he didn’t have access to the information…there are probably hundreds of confused, half-dead coma patients waking up every day, and I bet many of them will say strange, random things. It’s a statistical guarantee that, once in a while, one of them says something seemingly insightful. For every ‘act of clairvoyance,’ there are probably tons of coma patients who don’t get invited to universities because the random things they said were obviously untrue.”
I saw your knuckles turn white around your pen, but you stared silently down at your notes. Professor Hartmann nodded approvingly.
“Okay then, Laura, given that you, as a PhD student, have decided to participate in this undergraduate discussion, here comes the million-dollar question: How would you design a study to test Mr. Ester’s claims about the afterlife? What kind of experiment should we run to convince you?”
Raised eyebrows and giggles ensued as Laura’s face contorted in search of an answer. It appeared that some of the undergraduate students were gleeful that the PhD student in their midst was shown her boundaries. I would have given Laura more time to think, but the allotted lecture time was over, and I was forced to ring the tower bell.
As per usual, the least-engaged students were the first to get up and stuff their books into their bags. I, too, had other matters to tend to, but I allowed myself to linger for a moment longer. Laura squeezed her lips and stared silently ahead, still pondering Professor Hartmann’s final question. You jumped up and threw your pen and notebook into your briefcase. You turned away from Laura, mumbling, “Not as easy as flipping coins, is it?”
Then you rushed out and left the speechless Laura behind. You can be cheeky, Kasimir. At times, you can certainly be cheeky.

* * *

Younger universities might have interpreted your agitated behavior and your seeming infatuation with near-death experiences as a cause for concern. Such new institutions, say five hundred years or younger, believe that their best students are purely rational beings, unbothered by neuroses or personal biases. Only with time, one understands that truly brilliant work requires scientists to have deep personal ties with their field of study. Thus, I deduced that your emotional displays during Professor Hartmann’s opening lecture were yet another indicator of your potential, and that I had little reason to worry.
I came to this conclusion while coloring in the leaves of my maple trees outside the philosophy offices. I’ve always assumed that my philosophy staff are the deepest thinkers on campus, and thus most deserving of the red and yellow spectacle outside their windows. Accordingly, I always start my fall redecoration outside the Van Lommel Building. Soon, I would spread the new color palette onto the rest of my gardens and then pluck the leaves one by one, trickling them onto the ground in pleasant formations until Mr. Orkin-Rent would gather and dispose of them. There are good things to be said about large piles of leaves on university lawns, but during winter, I prefer a more controlled campus aesthetic.
During these redecorations, I thought of a potential strategy for gaining insight into the pesky laboratory. As Professor Hartmann’s parasitic organization was located in the Van Lommel Building, it needed to adhere to the campus-wide safety regulations, which included regular visits by my chief safety inspector, Mr. Orkin-Rent.
I quickly turned my attention to the janitor’s office, where I found him reading his newspaper. I rattled the teaspoon on his saucer, which—for some reason—made him sigh and put down the paper.
“Can I finish my first cup of coffee before you start bothering me?”
The word ‘bothering’ seemed a fairly poor choice for our professional, and usually quite cordial, relationship. I unlatched the small fire extinguisher from the wall and let it plop onto the carpet. That got his attention. He put away the newspaper and got up with a groan.
“Oh, you better hope there’s a fire. I’m not unscrewing any smoke alarms because you don’t like the look of them.”
He limped over to the cupboard, retrieved the campus map, and unrolled it on the table, furrowing his eyebrows as he saw the coffee stain on the western part of campus.
“Psychology basement? Is there an actual fire down there?”
Sometimes, despite our long history together, my old janitor can be a little slow to understand. Luckily, he had placed the Kleinburg University Codex on the windowsill, and I pushed the wind to riffle through its pages. Both of us ignored the fact that the window was closed at the time. Mr. Orkin-Rent hobbled across the room and leaned over the book.
“Mandatory safety inspections.”
He took off his reading glasses and chewed on them in a way that I had always disliked.
“Yes, that could work,” he said, and rather than compliment me on my idea, he put his wet glasses back behind his big ears.
“You know…for non-urgent matters like this, I prefer a note in the suggestion box.”
I considered a thorough review of the Hartmann Research Group quite urgent indeed, and I assume my janitor secretly thought the same, because he ignored the rest of his coffee, put on his jacket, and found a dusty safety checklist in one of his cupboards. In the doorframe, he hesitated and leaned back into the room.
“You know, if I take care of this, I probably won’t have time to dust the portraits in the gallery hall. Bit unfortunate, given that the mayor will give a speech there tomorrow.”
And with that, the old trickster left. Naturally, I hurried over to the gallery hall right away. After all, Mr. Orkin-Rent was right; speeches by politicians are usually accompanied by reporters and photographers, and I certainly wanted to avoid any impressions of dustiness.

* * *

Unfortunately, Mr. Orkin-Rent did not deliver a detailed report on what he found in the laboratory. The checklist he filed with Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov revealed no grave violations, but at least he forced Professor Hartmann to remove the cardboard blocking the basement window, allowing me a few glimpses inside before your irksome supervisor drilled a few holes, mounted a rod, and closed the new curtains so resolutely that I almost thought she could see me watching from the other side of the glass.
Still, now I knew that the center of the laboratory was occupied by a narrow bed—the kind that hospitals like to use—and that Professor Hartmann had stacked plenty of medical-looking equipment around the bed. While I could not make sense of the gadgets, tubes, and chemicals in the cupboards, this discovery still lifted my spirits because Professor Hartmann’s research plans clearly involved human participants, and any research with human participants must go through ethics review. Even better, the person who processed the ethics applications was Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov, and she, like I, strongly prefers physical, rather than electronic, document submissions. Thus, you can imagine that I spent much of the following days hovering around Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s desk, waiting for Professor Hartmann to walk in with a bundle of insightful papers.
As you know, this did not happen. Instead, Professor Hartmann had seemingly transferred the task of acquiring ethics approval to none other than her research assistant.
When you walked into Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office, I could not help noticing your disturbingly changed exterior. You had traded in your neat clothes for a shapeless, multi-colored sweater, and you had used copious amounts of pomade or some sort of gel to drag your hair in front of your face. I am sorry for this comment, but you looked much worse than usual, and I sincerely hoped for all these changes to be temporary.
“Hi!” you said, in a strange tone and a confusing pronunciation, “I’d like to pick up an ethics application form for Professor Hartmann.”
“Downloadable online,” Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov said, and I was aghast by my administrator's sudden infatuation with the internet. I remembered she had taken a course in computer operations over the summer, and feared that my secretary’s usefulness had diminished.
“Yes,” you said, “I have had some problems with the online portal login, and wondered whether a physical copy would be available here.”
Thank you, Kasimir—for your very reasonable request in these hypertechnical times. Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s pencil hovered over the crossword.
“You cannot log in?”
“Well…” You let your hair dangle even further over your eyes, “I’m not so handy with the new technologies, I’m afraid. Passwords et cetera.”
Personally, I found your explanation very sympathetic, and assumed that Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov would identify with your troubles, but instead she pulled open a drawer of student files and asked, “ID number?”
You stepped in place and gripped your briefcase tightly.
“Oh, I’m new. I’m afraid that I don’t have it memorized yet.”
Finally, Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov looked up and studied your face suspiciously. 
“The number’s on your card.”
You readily went through the pockets of your wide jeans pants—I was surprised you even owned such clothes—but came up empty.
“I think I left my card at home,” you said, “I will just head on over and come right back.”
You continued apologizing as you made your way back to the door, and Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov stared at you with the same suspicion she harbored towards students asking for a study extension.
When you failed to return that day and Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov locked up her office at six on the dot, I could no longer ignore my nagging suspicions. I flew over to Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s student registry and searched through all active enrolments at Kleinburg University. I started with the parapsychology program, continued with general psychology, and then went through the entire list of current undergraduates, including the ones that had been on the waiting list. When the last index card landed on the floor of the secretary’s office, I had to accept what I had feared for a while. You had never been accepted to Kleinburg University. You were an impostor.

* * *

I remember that the following week was one of rumination and self-doubt. As a non-human entity, I tend to get self-conscious about my understanding of human psychology. On good days, I feel a strong kinship with certain students, almost as if we were dancing, in mutual awareness, enlivening the campus and co-creating that thing called ‘college life’. But on some days, when my estimations go deeply awry, I feel like there is a deep divide between me and humans—the same divide that you likely feel when trying to empathize with an object, or a relatively inscrutable animal, like a fish. All this time, you had been a fish, Kasimir, and I did not like it.
Now, I also understood why you had brought up money issues with Laura. Your research assistantship was a sham as well, as you had never filed the contract that Professor Hartmann signed for you. As far as I knew, you had no source of income.
I considered alerting Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov about the fraudulent figure on campus, but whenever I started writing the note, I thought back to your first day on campus—the way you had studied my buildings and avoided trampling on my greens, unlike most who were lawfully enrolled. Instead of chewing bubble gum and tanning, you had carried around Professor Hartmann’s textbook in your handsome briefcase, and during her opening lecture, you had actively participated in the discussion. In addition, you were essentially volunteering for the research assistantship—highly unusual behavior among first-years who have to be bribed into research participation with money or course credits.
Many times, I discarded my half-finished warning to the secretary, instead revisiting the archives to study the admission committee’s documentation of your case. In the rubric table, I could see that your high school record—albeit less brilliant than I would have wished—should have sufficed for admission to the parapsychology program. Unfortunately, your interviewer had scored your attitude towards science as ‘questionable.’
This is a good time to tell you that I have been cross with the admission interviewers many times. What do they know about students’ proper attitudes and ideologies? Surveying the masses on campus, I assume first-years are selected based on their proclivity to underperform and oversocialize. Of course, I was not there for it, but I was sure your interviewer had been a useless graduate student who was probably jealous of your talent and your looks. Again, I became convinced that the whole selection procedure needed to be revised. Your rejection was proof enough that the admissions committee merely satisfied their subjective whims, rather than assessing academic potential. 
The only remaining diamonds on campus were my hand-selected scholars living in Sankt Albertushaus, and, as always when I felt angry and depressed, I decided to spend my time with them and offload the daily grunt work to Mr. Orkin-Rent.
Laura had chosen a Friday to move into Sankt Albertushaus, and she was busy unpacking books in her room when a jovial knock came from the door. Of course, I knew it would be Ben Olafson. As headboy, it was his task to welcome new students and integrate them into the social structures within Sankt Abertus. 
Laura opened the door and Ben greeted her with a bouquet of yellow roses and orange tulips. He had chosen a single sunflower as the focal point, proving his aesthetic instincts as one of Kleinburg University’s most formidable arts students.
“Laura Brenner! Welcome to Sankt Albertushaus,” he shouted and gave her the flowers.
“Thanks, Ben,” Laura said, “but didn’t you already welcome me?”
“Sure did,” Ben said, smiling brightly, “but you forgot your flowers in the entrance hall, so I assumed you wanted a do-over.”
Laura smirked and opened the door a little wider so Ben could come in. He looked at her pile of unopened boxes on her bed.
“Wow, I love what you will have done with the place.”
This got a laugh from Laura and reminded me why I had fixed Ben’s election to headboy two years earlier. His happy-go-lucky attitude was nicely complemented by his broad shoulders and Viking hair, making him quite a unique figure in Sankt Albertushaus. The other candidates, although academically superior, had lacked the social magnetism required of a headboy. It was his task to nurture the social cohesion in the house, and he did the job outstandingly.
“We will also have official welcome drinks in the common room tonight,” he said with a concerned look at the flowers that Laura had thrown onto the desk. “…which might be followed by some welcome-dancing, and some welcome-marihuana-smoking, or alternatively some welcome-karaoke-singing.”
“I was planning to do some work,” Laura said, and I could see her fingers close around a small object in her pocket. Ben laughed and shook his head.
“You do fit in here. But Friday is the only day when the janitor doesn’t magically appear as soon as someone cracks open a beer, so it might be your one chance to meet the other overarchievers.”
This was, of course, a strong dramatization of Mr. Orkin-Rent’s supervision of the Sankt Albertus students, but I will admit that I delay my alerts on Fridays. Young scholars needed time to socialize, and Friday evenings were the dedicated time slots. Laura still looked unconvinced, pulling a coin out of her pocket and inspecting it under the harsh ceiling light. Ben held up a finger and fished a paper out of his back pocket, which he handed to Laura with a flourish.
“May I present tonight’s drink menu, custom-made for the newest member of our Sankt Albertus’s family?”
Laura put her coin away and studied the menu intently. It had a very tasteful design with decorative grape vines around the edges and beautiful calligraphy saying ‘A paranormal night with Laura Brenner.’ Ben had even laminated it. Like I said, the quality of his coursework may fluctuate, but in his role as headboy, Ben always applied the full range of his artistic talents. Laura started reading aloud from the menu.
“Telepathy Tequila—I think you will like it.”
“That’s right,” Ben said and waved at a student passing the door.
“Extrasensory Eggnog,” Laura continued. “I see a hangover in your future.”
“We don’t actually have eggnog,” Ben admitted. “But we can get some—if you’re joining us tonight.”
“Are you doing this for every new student?” Laura asked, holding up the menu. 
“Well,” Ben said, “A new student is always exciting. Tina—room seven—named the drinks. English major and excellent source of punnery.”
“I’ll pass on the eggnog,” Laura said, reviewing the list. “But given the amount of work you put into this…and people’s obvious belief that my research is cookoo…I guess I should make an appearance.”
“Excellent,” Ben exclaimed, “We start at eight in the common room. I will spread the good news.”
Now you might wonder, Kasimir, why I told you about this scene between Laura and Ben. My intention was merely to give some background on their first encounter, and to set the scene for her welcome party, because this was where I finally received news from you, albeit unpleasant ones.
Ben was quite right when characterizing the Sankt Albertus students as rather introverted and studious, which meant that Laura’s welcome event started with the usual stiffness. Given that the Sankt Albertus residents—except for Ben—recognized their shared awkwardness and social inhibitions, a strange sense of comfort imbued the Friday meetings. Laura seemed to understand this hopeless yet benevolent ambiance right away. She sat down on one of the leather chairs, sniffed her ‘Telepathy Tequila’—heavily diluted by yours truly—and smiled while observing the other students arriving and sitting down quietly. Most of them either drank their sodas in absolute silence—few accepted the cocktails Ben was advertising—and began exchanging hushed, repetitive remarks about their study load and homework. Ben put on some rather upbeat music, and while some eyebrows were raised, nobody protested. I have often observed that Ben’s music induced a whole new level of discomfort among my Sankt Albertus group. Nobody spoke for a while while the music filled the tastefully dimmed room. 
“Did anyone hear what happened at the hostel?” Ben asked. I assume he secretly hoped that one of the other residents would be brave enough to tell the story, but most of them shook their heads, including Laura.
“I think someone got expelled,” Ivan said, a Slavic-looking boy who had just graduated from my music program with the highest distinction.
“Yes, that’s what I heard, too,” Ben said, “Apparently, one of their guests pretended to be a student. There was a fight in the parking lot when they kicked him out.”
Laura lowered her glass, and the other students shuffled their feet until someone came up with a reasonable follow-up question.
“Do you know who it was?”
Ben shrugged. He stood by the beverage table, outside the chair circle, but still entertained the entire group.
“Nothing specific. Some nutjob from parapsy.” He winced and gave a conciliatory smile to Laura. “Not saying that all parapsychology students are nutjobs. I mean…that guy wasn’t even a student.”
“How did they catch him?” Angus asked—a philosophy student whose dark eyes foretold the brilliance of his thinking and the boldness of his essays. He never talked much, except during the debate club meetings, where he transformed into the most witty and eloquent speaker. Last year, he even won a medal for Kleinburg University. Ben took a sip from his beer and put his hand on the backrest of a student.
“I heard that he couldn’t pay for his room, and so the hostel staff inquired about him at the student desk. When they confronted him about not being a student, he tried climbing out of the window.”
Laura’s smile had disappeared, and she sat silently. Clearly, she had harbored the same suspicions about you as I had. She was the one whom you asked for all the documents after all. When she withdrew to her room, her drink was still half-full. Without her, Ben turned rather silent, and soon after, he shut off the music.

* * *

With the campus-wide suspicion towards you, I feared that you might withdraw from Kleinburg altogether, and to distract myself from that scenario, I returned to my regular maintenance tasks. Specifically, I was scouting out the Sitting Room—the staff cafeteria in the center of campus.  Recently, the Sitting Room had turned into the problem child among my buildings. 
As you might expect, Kleinburg University is growing and constantly hiring more staff. Most of them want to have lunch at the same time, and especially on colder days, they all flock to the warm embrace of the two fireplaces in my carpeted Sitting Room. Originally built for around two dozen people, there were now often a hundred people trying to have lunch at the same time. Mr. Orkin-Rent had received many complaints about waiting times and, as can be expected from academics, many forwarded ideas about optimizing the chair and table arrangements. Complaints and discussions are unavoidable when managing a university, but unfortunately, a few overeager staff members founded a committee—oh, how I hate those—which advocated to ‘expand the building.’
You might think that I would welcome possible investments in my campus facilities, but while I appreciate monetary support, I am unwilling to accept creative input from short-lived humans—I mean no offense. The unfortunate truth is that modern committees usually promote buildings, walls, and even furniture that would stick out from my campus like ugly weeds in a field of tulips. The Sitting Room and all surrounding buildings are hundreds of years old, and integrating a ‘modern expansion’ would certainly compromise my campus aesthetic.
The committee would likely hire an architect who would immediately advertise to demolish the entire building and replace it with a soulless multi-story cafeteria. Surely, the committee would agree, and the blue-collar workers would rip out all my tapestry and replace all my wooden tables and chairs with grotesque pieces of plastic. Such misguided redecorations would, naturally, discourage my staff from having lunch in the Sitting Room, and thus render the entire expansion ad absurdum. No, if anyone could find a satisfying solution to the spatial problems, it would have to be me.
To gain some time, I provided Mr. Orkin-Rent with an old document suggesting that the Sitting Room might be protected as a cultural landmark. He readily submitted his finding to the expansion committee, which had the desired effect of slowing their bureaucratic progress.
One afternoon, I was circling the problematic building, considering rerouting some waterlines to the neighboring physics faculty, which might enable them to have their own separate canteen, when I spotted you trying the outside door handle of the library’s fire exit.
Surprised, although not unpleasantly so, I postponed my mission and came closer. You wore a nice scarf in Kleinburg’s colors, which fit very well with your coat. Based on the dark scratch on your cheek, I supposed that you had indeed gotten into a scuffle at the student hostel.
You rattled the library’s back door unsuccessfully and stared up and down the brick wall. I realized that, without a valid student ID, they had likely rejected you at the library’s main entrance. One cannot blame them; only students are allowed to enter the library during exam week, and external visitors are supposed to be sent away.
“Kasimir!”
Professor Hartmann waved at you from the entrance of the Sitting Room. You winced as if you had been caught stealing books.
“How come you weren’t at the meeting?” Professor Hartmann shouted. “Come here. We have things to discuss. Lunch on me.”
Based on her tone, the professor had yet to hear the scandalous news about your student status. You hesitated, standing awkwardly in front of the fire exit, but then jogged in her direction.
“Nice to meet you, Professor Hartmann,” you said, somewhat stiffly. “Thank you very much for the invitation. I’d be happy to accept.”
“I bet you are,” the professor said, “You look famished.”
I realized that she was right. You had dark circles around your eyes, and there was a tremor in your voice. During lunch, the professor and I watched you attack your mashed potatoes like a starving animal. Technically, it was forbidden to invite students into the Sitting Room—if you could be called a student—and some colleagues gave you suspicious looks. Professor Hartmann, in line with her disruptive tendencies, did not seem to mind. She even gave you her staff pass to get a dessert and two cups of coffee, which you obligingly did. While you strained to eat your apple pie at a reasonable pace, Professor Hartmann sipped her coffee and mustered you impatiently.
“Business time, Kasimir. How are we doing on ethics?”
You swallowed heavily.
“Oh, I assumed you had heard of…my problems with…the student desk?”
Professor Hartmann checked her watch.
“Sure, Laura might have mentioned something about the secretary screwing up your registration, but I don’t see why this must delay our ethics application. I also have deadlines, you know?”
Both you and I realized that Laura had kept Professor Hartmann in the dark about your fraudulent student status. You forced down a piece of pie and spoke quickly.
“Well—” you coughed. “I’m making good progress, but without a valid student card, I cannot get the application form. I can’t log into the computers. I can’t even get into the library to borrow books about near-death research—which I assume will be necessary.”
Professor Hartmann shook her head and made a face like her coffee had suddenly turned cold.
“You’re gonna ask for ethics for testing standard medical machinery. No need to mention near-death experiences.” She looked around, as if to check whether someone had heard her, and slid her chair closer. “My funders want results before the end of the year. We just need the ethics people to okay some sort of project. Then we can play reasonable deniability.”
You nodded eagerly, pushed your plate aside, and also scooted closer.
“I can do that, but without an ID, I cannot get the form. The secretary said it might take weeks to receive the ID card.”
I tried to remember Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov ever mentioning such a timeline before realizing that you were lying to your supervisor.
“Weeks?” Professor Hartmann searched the pockets of her cargo vest. “We cannot wait that long for a stupid ethics approval. Take my ID. That should give you access to the library and everything else. There’s money on there, too. Use it…if you need to print something or whatever. Where do I have the damn card?”
“Oh, I’m sorry,” you said, and produced the card from your wallet. “I still had it from getting the coffee.”
“Good,” Professor Hartmann said. “Keep it. I can use a code to get into the lab. We’re almost ready to invite test subjects, so we really need that ethics approval.”
“Understood,” you said, and pocketed the ID card. I wonder what Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov would have said if she had witnessed this exchange. The amount of rule violations must be staggering.
“Quick question,” you said, “wouldn’t it be beneficial if I knew a little more about the technical details, if I fill out the ethics application?” You lifted the card. “Now that I havew this, I could just go in there and study the setup for myself.”
Professor Hartmann shook her head and checked her watch.
“The card gives you access, but you can’t go in by yourself. There’s an automatic alarm after two minutes. Basic safety requirements from my funders.”
“Then how can I describe the procedure if—” 
Professor Hartmann waved you off.
“I will show you around after you finish your coffee.”
There was a moment of silence while you took large sips from your cup. Before finishing the last bit, you wiped your mouth and looked up nervously.
“Professor?” you asked. “What do you think will happen? To the person that dies, I mean.”
She looked at you suspiciously.
“Question old as time, Kasimir. Why do you think I have the answer?” She motioned at your coffee cup. “Let’s finish that and hit the lab.”
You stuttered, once more losing your eloquence in a way that I found quite painful to watch.
“I just thought…given your work, you might have…opinions.”
“If you’re interested in opinions, you write a letter to that old fool from the lecture—”
“I want to know your opinion!”
The Sitting Room went quiet, as the other staff members mustered the intruding student who had just raised his voice at a professor. Professor Hartmann’s expression darkened, and she leaned over the table to whisper, “Is there something you’re not telling me, Kasimir? Would you like to confess any conflict of interest regarding our research? Anything that might disqualify you as my research assistant?”
Your neck muscles strained as you stared back at her. Finally, you gave in.
“No,” you said. “I just thought…it’s an interesting question to think about.”
“I agree,” Professor Hartmann said, “as do my funders.” She got up. “If we make decent progress on the ethics application, you’ll get your answer sooner rather than later. Now let’s clean up here and hit the lab.”
You cleared both trays, and while placing them onto the cart, I could see you slipping Professor Hartmann’s leftover bread into your pocket.

* * *

Your return to campus sparked a range of emotions in me. First, one has to acknowledge the audacity of continuing your research assistantship and attending lectures despite having been found out by numerous students, administrators, and the hostel staff. At the same time, your unwavering passion for your research confirmed all my previous impressions of you. Just like any outstanding scientist, you were undeterred by obstacles blocking your path.
On a grey November day, around noon, you left the library with a stack of books, likely loaned with Professor Hartmann’s card, and found Laura waiting for you on the stairs.
“I thought I saw you walking in,” she said.
“You must have waited for quite a while,” you responded, likely noticing Laura’s red cheeks. I always found it funny that the faces of some students turn red when I decrease the temperature on campus.
“Of course, I waited,” Laura said instantly. “I mean…you fought people at the hostel, yelled at the library staff, and abandoned our meetings with Professor Hartmann. Who wouldn’t want to know what’s up with you?” 
You made a pained facial expression and looked past Laura towards my yellowing birches. Laura looked somewhat embarrassed and threw a weak punch towards your elbow. 
“Dance partners are always entitled to first-hand gossip.”
You started walking, and Laura fell in with you. The two of you made your way around the library towards the Van Lommel Building, your usual route to the East Bridge.
“I suppose it’s been a bit turbulent,” you said, hands in your pockets and shoulders raised against the wind. 
Laura looked at the ground ahead while walking close to you—as if practiced in your shared intimacy. 
“But hey, you have a student card now, right? They let you into the library.”
You didn’t answer but glanced up towards the bridge, as if you had to reach it to escape. I filled the air with the scent of leaves and trees, in an attempt to soothe you, and hopefully coax out your usual manners. Laura mirrored you by putting her hands in her pockets.
“So how’s your work going? I told Professor Hartmann that the secretaries messed up and that you’re busy sorting things out.”
“I’ve been meeting with her,” you said. “I’m working on our ethics application.”
Laura snorted as if you had made a joke, but your face stayed serious. She lifted a hand, palm-up.
“How exactly will you fill out the ethics forms if she doesn’t even show us the lab?”
“I’ve seen the lab,” you said casually. “Professor Hartmann is still changing things, but I think I understand enough for the forms.”
Laura pursed her lips.
“Okay, so what’s her plan then? Or am I not allowed to know?”
You shrugged.
“Professor Hartmann said to keep things for myself.”
Laura stopped short, but you kept walking, and she ran a few steps to catch up.
“Well, I’m glad you two are getting along so well, although based on your eyebags, I’d say she’s working you too hard. How much are you getting paid?”
You snorted, as if accepting money would compromise your work for Professor Hartmann. Laura looked trapped between anger and worry.
“You’re getting paid the standard salary, right? She’s not exploiting the fact that you’re not enrolled.”
You were close to the bridge now, and your jaw muscles worked under your pale skin.
“I’ve got plenty of money, thanks.”
Now, Laura had to jog every few steps to keep up.
“Well,” she said, “I could still ask my dad about that night guard job. It’s boring, but at least you’d be getting paid. And my aunt works for the student accommodation services. She said there are cheap rooms close to campus—”
“Laura, stop!” you said and stopped at the bridge. “You’re treating me like a child. It’s humiliating.”
Laura looked as if you had slapped her. You scoffed, shook your head, and crossed the bridge without her.

* * *

You spent the following two weeks brooding over books in the library and occasionally transferring notes onto the ethics application form—a document with surprisingly many sections about the planned experiment, possible safety risks, and a list of reference studies. While you read widely across parapsychology, mysticism, and religious texts, it seemed like your writing went best whenever you ventured into my medical section, especially when reading books on anaesthesia. You also explored texts on hallucinogenic drugs and their use in psychological experiments. Most nights, you stayed until the library’s closing time, and I often delayed my final chime of the bell, so it would coincide with your departure, and you would look up to my beautiful moonlit tower. 
Despite your obvious diligence, you had the unfortunate tendency to erase writings from previous days or even restart the ethics form from scratch, and thus, most sections remained rather empty or filled with self-critical footnotes. I could see your frustration in your sighs and the endless coffee refills afforded by Professor Hartmann’s staff card. You must have written the title of the application a dozen times, and currently favored: ‘Sedation: A standard equipment test.’
Now, you must wonder why I continuously tolerated a non-student infiltrating my facilities and getting involved in the research on my campus. Do not assume that I blindly held on to my initial attraction to your academic talents. The embarrassing truth is that I needed the research of the Hartmann Research Group to succeed in order to preserve my academic reputation. No university likes to say this, but I had slid a few spots in the worldwide rankings, and my critics kept bemoaning the number of innovations and breakthrough discoveries coming from my research staff. Needless to say that this whole ranking business is rather undignified and—as far as I can tell—built on fairly arbitrary rubrics. Nonetheless, official rankings affect the amount of funding I receive, the quality of the incoming students, and the public’s perception of Kleinburg University, and thus, my research needed revitalization.
In a move of sheer panic, the university board had—once again—discussed the idea of reallocating monetary resources from the social sciences to the hard sciences, but I cannot accept that, Kasimir; I cannot do it. The people in physics, computer science, and engineering often strike me as rather dull and untrustworthy. They do not appreciate the beauty of academia—including the beauty of my buildings—in the same way as a sociologist or an artist does. And—I am sorry to say this—they also clash visually with my efforts to keep the campus neat and attractive. I admit that my hard science buildings are somewhat crammed and the equipment is outdated, but given that other universities positively pamper their hard science departments, any dissatisfied computer nerds could simply transfer to one of those institutions. 
No, instead of the Internet, car engines, or new types of computer devices, I decided to put my hopes on you and Professor Hartmann. Admittedly, your planned study on near-death experiences still seemed somewhat vague, but I assumed it could deliver fascinating scientific insights, which could in turn boost my academic standing. In short, I tried to think of ways to support you, rather than oust you from my grounds.
One morning, when Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov entered her office, she found a piece of paper under her chair, as if accidentally dropped and forgotten on the previous day. She snorted and, instead of picking it up, took her time to hang her coat and prepare her tea. Finally, she sat down, swiped the paper from the floor, inspected your photograph, and read through the carefully documented course history. 
“Wow, almost looks like a real student file,” she said and took a sip of her tea.
I was glad that she appreciated the quality of my handiwork and assumed she would file the new document right away, thereby adding you to the official student corpus. Instead, she leaned back in her chair and made the affected face of a seasoned debate champion.
“What do you want with this kid?” she asked into the room. “I know you’re the reason he keeps popping up.”
Of course, I refrained from responding to these lazy taunts. Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov can be difficult at times—everybody knows this—but behind her bureaucratic facade, there is a helpful person. She had been at Kleinburg University almost as long as Mr. Orkin-Rent.
“Listen,” she said in a more serious tone, “I’m not going to enroll some boy, just because you fancy him.”
Fancy? Now, this was an affront, insinuating that my interest in you was anything but academic. Looking back, it was petty, but I took hold of my secretary’s teacup and spilled the contents over her carpet.
“Oh, you devil,” she shouted and jumped up. “You can forget about this.”
She waved the paper in the air and then ripped it into pieces and threw it into the trash. You see now, Kasimir, why I felt like I was losing control over my campus. 

* * *

After the unfortunate setback in Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s office, I withdrew to Sankt Albertushaus to hatch new ideas in the presence of my other brilliant students. Ultimately, my students are the only evaluators I care about, and it soothes me to find them in their rooms with their noses in their books or quietly reviewing their coursework.
I chose to go to Laura’s room first, likely because I had the irrational hope of finding you there, making amends after your silly argument from earlier. But she was alone, sitting at her desk, chewing on a pencil, and occasionally taking cryptic notes. She wrote of ‘sample size planning’ and ‘standardized coin weighing’, and I noticed that she had two stacks of coins placed on a balance scale next to her.
There was a familiar knock, and Laura made a face as if she had been interrupted in some important calculations. She leaned back, rubbed her face, and checked her watch. 
“Come in,” she sighed.
Ben’s face and two beer bottles appeared in the crack of the door.
“Interrupting?”
“You’re fine,” Laura said, and checked the battery status of the camcorder charging under her desk. She flipped through the device’s digital settings while Ben mustered the unopened boxes in the middle of the room. He placed the beer bottles on Laura’s desk.
“Still not done unpacking, eh?”
“Nope,” Laura said and grabbed the left bottle—nonalcoholic— the correct choice for a school night.
“Well, if you need any help. I’m a good unboxer, and very discreet about plushies.”
“I have a system,” Laura said, and clinked her bottle against Ben’s. “I take my clothes out whenever I need them, and after washing them, I put them in the wardrobe. No double carries.”
“Very cool,” Ben said, looking understandably unconvinced. “Practical, I suppose.” He carefully sat down on the edge of Laura’s bed. “Listen, I don’t know if you remember but…during your welcome party, I said some not-so-nice things about that pretend-student from your department who got kicked out of the hostel. I think he’s called Kasimir.”
Laura took a sip of her beer and inspected the label. Ben scratched his forearm.
“I had no idea he was your friend, so I just wanted to apologize—”
“Oh, I’m not sure that we’re friends,” Laura said. “We just work with the same supervisor.”
I hope you see why I am describing this scene to you, Kasimir. Your somewhat brute rejection at the bridge had unsettled Laura, and while it would have been wise for you to apologize, it was now Ben who did the apologizing.
“I see,” Ben said, picking at the label of his bottle. “But you went to the graduation ball together, right?”
“We did,” Laura said, taking another decisive sip and adjusting the coins on the scale.
There was a short pause before Ben got the hint and changed topics. He pointed at the stacks of coins.
“So what are you two working on? The paranormal and supernatural weight of coins?”
Laura rolled her eyes at him.
“My next study will replicate an influential psychokinesis paper to see if the results hold up under stricter controls, which I doubt very much. Kasimir works on something else. He helps Professor Hartmann with her research on near-death experiences.”
“Sounds interesting,” Ben said. “Your research, I mean. What was this ‘influential paper’ about? I mean…you said ‘psychokinesis’ but what does that mean exactly…”
Laura swiveled towards Ben and put her feet onto one of the cardboard boxes.
“Psychokinesis is the same as ‘telekinesis’. You might have heard of that. Influencing physical objects with your mind. The paper I’m replicating allegedly showed that people can steer the outcome of random processes, purely through mental energy. Random processes like coin flipping or dice rolling.”
Ben nodded, still fidgeting with the label.
“Sure, I’ve heard of telekinesis—mostly in science-fiction comics, I think. So, what are you going to do in that study? Try to flip heads a hundred times in a row?”
He laughed, acknowledging that he might be way off. Laura smiled.
“It’s a bit more involved than that, but in essence, yes. The original authors had a success rate of fifty-two percent. With random chance obviously being fifty-fifty, assuming an unbiased coin.”
“Hmm,” Ben said. “Fifty-two percent? I can see why you’re not convinced.”
“Well,” Laura said, and started playing with a coin. “Their success rate doesn’t really bother me—even the craziest parapsychologists believe that psychokinesis effects are relatively small. But if you read through their experimental setup, it all sounds kind of—sketchy. They only did a thousand coin tosses; there was no independent verification of their results; they didn’t specify ahead of time whether they were going for heads or tails, which obviously doubled their chances—”
“Ah, I see,” Ben said, “and now you’re trying to re-run their experiment to check whether they were lying.”
“Well, I don’t know about lying,” Laura said and glanced at her notebook. “But I will improve their experimental setup. If I can get enough helpers…people who flip different kinds of coins. I want to have at least two hundred thousand coin tosses.”
Ben raised his eyebrows.
“That’s incredible. Sounds almost like an arts project.”
Laura laughed.
“Well, we’re going to film every throw and make the footage publicly available, so if you want to make a video collage for one of your courses…”
Ben smiled and lifted his bottle in Laura’s direction. 
“To our first artistic collaboration.”
They joked a little longer about the artistic potential of parapsychological research until Laura finished her beer and Ben got up, hiding the ragged label of the bottle in his hand.
“Well, it was fun to learn more about your work,” he said, and I silently agreed. Few things lift my spirits like hearing my graduate students explain their research plans. Laura nodded and turned her chair back to her desk. Ben lingered in the doorway.
“You know…we always need models for our painting classes. There’ll be a session under the willows tomorrow.”
I made a mental note to attend this session, but Laura only gave him an amused smile.
“What are you asking, Ben?”
My tall headboy shrugged and talked a little faster.
“I just thought, in case you’re interested in my work. We could—”
“Thanks,” Laura said, “but I’m not going to pose for you in the middle of campus.”
“No problem,” Ben said quickly. “The idea just came to me because we were talking—”
“If you want…” Laura said, “You can take me on a normal date. Walking, coffee, a movie…”
“Oh,” Ben said and wrung the neck of his bottle. “I’m not sure whether I’m allowed to ask other residents on a date, given that I’m headboy…”
Laura waited, and Ben laughed nervously.
“...but I guess that’s why I came to your room.”
Now listen, Kasimir, you might wonder why I didn’t intervene here, especially as I had envisioned a relationship between Laura and you. The simple truth is that I changed my mind. Clearly, you had too much work at that time, and a new romance—irrespective of the partner—would have caused too much distraction. Plus, your and Laura’s encounters had been somewhat antagonistic lately, whereas her conversations with Ben were relaxed and positive. Plus, they already lived in the same house, and while I do discourage relationships between the headboy and other residents, their connection would undeniably be more efficient. It was just easier. For everybody.

* * *

It must have been December when Laura and Ben’s romance started. I remember because they were in the background of the student magazine cover, showing my snowy meadows along the river. There tends to be a lot of photography around the time of the first snow. You will remember my title of ‘prettiest winter campus,’ and with such an award come heightened standards and expectations.
As every year, Mr. Orkin-Rent and I worked around the clock to ensure a campus that was functional and yet pleasing to the eye, two goals that can be difficult to reconcile. For instance, the river has to be frozen over, but given the advanced age of my premier scholars, my marble walkways cannot be too slippery. Similarly, students expect all doors and metal locks to remain usable despite the icy temperatures, but I must discourage the installation of ugly, reliable sliding doors, or these multi-paneled, motor-powered glass doors, which are literally and figuratively revolting.
Historical windows are another source of conflict; physics staff bemoan suboptimal work conditions; and most outdoor maintenance is hindered by the scarcity and lethargy of my animal helpers.
In short, I am extraordinarily busy during winter and forced to push Mr. Orkin-Rent to his limits—all to maintain a picture of serene beauty with all the comforts expected of a modern campus. 
But why would I lie to you, Kasimir…I love this time of year. Between December and March, my creative work can truly justify my reputation. Every year, I tinker with the weather to ensure that Kleinburg University is the first institution in the country to be graced with snow. Local weather phenomena exist, Kasimir, and I rarely hear people complain.
Fittingly, you were the first to see the spectacle that year. You materialized close to the Myers Convocation Hall and marveled at the white blanket covering my lawns and giving the illusion that my boxwood bushes had grown tremendously overnight.
Your face was as pale as the white gusts of air from your mouth, or the snow underneath your feet, or the stack of papers in the crook of your arm. You still wore the handsome coat you had worn in September, and, although I wished your paleness stemmed from your admiration of the scenery, it was obvious that you had grown thinner. You stashed your scarf into the collar of your coat and left the first trail of footsteps on your way to the administrative offices. 
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov stood by her office window, drinking her tea and observing the falling snow with an almost anger-free expression. Her face soured when you entered her office. You gave her your usual, polite smile.
“Good morning, Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov,” you said and went up to her counter. “It’s beautiful out there, isn’t it?”
I know this was only a casual remark, Kasimir, but I am not ashamed that—coming from you—it really meant a lot.
“This office is here to support students, Mr. Schneider. I wonder what keeps bringing you here.”
You managed to keep an almost unperturbed expression and only hesitated briefly.
“I’m here to hand in an ethics application on behalf of Professor Hartmann.”
With that, you slid your papers across the desk and took a step back, as if trying to prevent my dear secretary from giving them back to you. You bravely endured a few seconds of intense eye contact before Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov started reluctantly perusing the pages. What you might not have known is that Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov has no say in the evaluation of ethics applications, but behind her gold-rimmed spectacles, she was certainly trying to think of a rule or bureaucratic pretext for rejecting your submission.
When she arrived at the last page, she snorted and wordlessly went into a backroom. She spent quite a while comparing Professor Hartmann’s signature to those on other documents. To my relief, they looked fairly similar, although Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s eyebrows stayed stiff. With a red pen, she noted ‘confirmation call needed’ on the front page of your document. Returning to her desk, she positioned the papers in a way that virtually forced you to read her note.
“Is someone paying you for this work, Mr. Schneider?”
You opened your mouth, but seemed unsure of what to say.
“Are you aware,” Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov continued, “that all research assistants at Kleinburg University need to be officially enrolled in one of our programs, even if they work for that guest organization called Hartmann Research Group GmbH?”
I was concerned by my secretary’s fierce tone towards you, but also delighted that she had named Professor Hartmann a guest. This suggested that my laboratory would be returned to me in the foreseeable future. You laughed awkwardly, as if the idea of a research assistantship had never crossed your mind.
“Oh no, I’m just handing this in as a personal favor to Professor Hartmann.” You brushed your hand through your thick hair. “Oh, and before I stop bothering you, Professor Hartmann also asked how long the ethics committee usually takes to approve a study.”
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov glared at you.
“If this study gets approved, it will take quite a long time, I assume. High-risk studies like this—” She planted her wrinkly finger on the title of the document, which you had changed to Routine Equipment Tests, “—can be expected to need many rounds of revision.”
“Oh,” you said, “I don’t really think that this study is high-risk. If anything—”
“Well, it’s for the committee to decide, isn’t it?” Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov said and gathered the papers. On your way to the door, she addressed you once more.
“And could you please inform Professor Hartmann that, while there is no official rule, it is certainly customary for the principal researcher to hand in her ethics applications herself. Kleinburg University does not condone cutting corners or exploiting young people for unpaid labor.”
To the best of me, I am unsure how my dear secretary had arrived at such faulty conclusions about your relationship with Professor Hartmann, but that is why she is an administrator, and not a researcher.

* * *

A few days later, Laura waited atop the stairs of the Van Lommel Building, checking her watch in front of Professor Hartmann’s office. As was her habit, she had arrived a little too early for their weekly meeting. I rang the tower bell and Laura put her hand on the door handle, when you came rushing up the stairway. She greeted you politely and expressed her surprise at seeing you there. You explained that Professor Hartmann had requested your presence. Laura did not complain about the professor’s obvious double-booking. Instead, she lifted her hand as if to brush some snow off your shoulder but then simply pointed at it and remarked on the weather. You agreed with her statement and brushed away the white dust. You humans can be a mystery—fluctuating between formal and intimate behavior in seemingly random intervals.
The door opened, and Professor Hartmann asked why you weren’t coming in. You offered to prepare three coffees, which the professor confirmed. Both Laura and I noticed the unhealthy amount of sugar you poured into your cup, and I’m pretty sure that you pocketed a few sugar packets when the others were not looking.
“Kasimir,” Professor Hartmann said, “sit down. I have bad news.”
I could see Laura’s nostrils flaring, but she quietly took a seat.
“Oh,” you said, almost spilling coffee over Laura, who, as per usual, accepted her cup but placed it far away.
Professor Hartmann walked around her desk, her sneakers squeaking on the carpet-less floor, and waved a familiar-looking document in your face.
“We got rejected,” she said. “Vague language, lack of explicit research goals, and unscientific reference material.”
I saw your hands shaking as you accepted the document. The committee had lined the margins with angry, red annotations, and I could imagine Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s delight in relaying the rejection to Professor Hartmann. Your hand went to your coffee cup, stopped, and wiped across your nose. Then you cleared your throat and silently shook your head. Laura looked at you with what was probably pity.
“It’s pretty normal to be rejected, right Professor?” she said. “Ethics committees almost always ask for clarifications.”
“True,” Professor Hartmann said, “although in this case we have to keep our foot on the gas. Time is money.”
You still studied the document, mumbling about ‘sabotage’ and the ‘damned secretary.’ 
Professor Hartmann sat down and clicked around on her computer, giving you a few seconds to compose yourself, before saying, “The committee’s comments seemed pretty manageable. Just add a little more detail. Not too much obviously. The more they read, the more they have to complain about. Revise and resubmit asap.”
You nodded and took a shaky sip of coffee. Professor Hartmann continued to operate her clicking device on the desk, seemingly editing the technical drawing featuring the humanoid outline. Laura’s knee started jumping.
“Is there more, or should I start with my stuff?” she asked.
“Absolutely,” Professor Hartmann said, still operating her computer pointer. “Shoot.”
Laura opened her notebook.
“All pretests for coins, locations, and camera setups are finished. I also made a list of psychokinesis techniques and—”
“Nice,” Professor Hartmann said, tirelessly moving her clicking apparatus across her desk. “This was for the dice study, right?”
“Coins,” Laura corrected her through gritted teeth. “Replicating Weber and Weinhold’s fifty-two percent success rate in flipping coins.”
“Ah, yes…disproving psychokinesis. I’m with you.”
At the word ‘disproving,’ you lifted your head and gave your supervisor a confused look. Laura flipped to the next page in her notebook.
“I calculated the expected effect sizes, the required number of observations, and I got ethics approval.”
She let her last words trail off so they were barely audible. I watched you closely, but you stayed motionless, staring at your feet. Laura quickly flipped to the next page.
“I need ten independent coin flippers, each doing thirty thousand trials.”
“Oh, I’m not sure we have budget for that,” Professor Hartmann said. “Paying ten people for this amount of work is going to be—”
“Expensive,” Laura finished the professor’s thought. “And given that I don’t have that many friends who I could ask for a favor, I came up with an alternative method that only involves two participants.”
“Okay,” Professor Hartmann said, finally shutting off her display monitor. “Let’s hear it.”
Laura placed her notebook on the desk and pointed at two sketched humans facing each other.
“One person will be the coin flipper and the other person will try to influence the coin.”
“Ah, I see what you’re going for,” the professor said. “I’m guessing the coin flipper won’t know which result the mentalizer is going for…so the person handling the coin cannot do any trickery.”
“Yes,” Laura said, “any success above chance level could be ascribed to the mentalizer’s psychokinetic efforts, rather than any covert efforts by the coin flipper.”
“Not sure why you’re expecting trickery,” you said. Apparently, Laura’s and Professor Hartmann’s animated voices had lifted you from your stupor. “Why don’t you stick to the original method if you want to replicate their result?”
There was a moment of silence as the others seemed to ponder whether your question deserved an answer. They decided against it.
“You could use a random number generator,” Professor Hartmann said to Laura. “Before every trial, the number generator could show the mentalizer whether to go for heads or tails. The coin flipper can’t see it of course.”
“That’s the plan,” Laura said and retrieved her notebook from the desk. “I already borrowed an RNG device from one of my housemates.”
You opened your mouth, but again the professor was quicker.
“Good,” she said. “Will you be the mentalizer?”
Laura nodded, and you interjected.
“Why her? Won’t people say she’s biased?”
“That’s the point, Kasimir,” Laura said. “Scientists are always going to be suspicious of the participants in a parapsychology experiment, regardless of who we pick. That’s why the method has to be airtight. Uncheatable. Otherwise, people won’t believe us, even if we have a sixty percent success rate.”
Your jaw muscles worked. You looked at Laura through your eyebrows and whispered, “I’m not saying that you’re biased in favor of psychokinesis, I’m saying you might be biased against it.”
A thick silence filled the office until Professor Hartmann slapped her hand on the table.
“Alright. You have some feedback there, Laura. That’s what these meetings are for. Who will be your coin flipper?”
Laura stashed her notes in her backpack. She took a while and answered with her back turned to you.
“My boyfriend can do it. He said he’s happy to help.”
You intertwined your fingers and stared at them.
“Hmm,” Professor Hartmann said. “What does he study?”
“I don’t know why that matters but…arts. He’s in his last semester.”
“Hmm,” the professor said again. “I think we have a two-birds situation here. Kasimir!”
You lifted your head at the sudden sound of your name. Professor Hartmann pointed back and forth between you and Laura.
“You and Laura will take turns as the coin flipper and the mentalizer. In exchange, Laura will help you with the ethics application.”

* * *

I applauded Professor Hartmann’s intuition to employ Laura to support your trudging work. You, on the other hand, looked somewhat displeased when you exited the Van Lommel Building, squinting into the white surroundings and wrapping your thin coat around you. Laura came down the stairs behind you, and I quickly reduced the snowfall to allow for an extended walk. 
Your light shoes seemed entirely unsuitable for the season, especially next to Laura’s thick boots. Usually, you were the snappier dresser, but a wardrobe also needs to be practical, especially in winter. I wondered whether you had forgotten your clothes at your parental home.
“Humiliating…” you mumbled and marched down the stairs. Laura followed.
“What’s humiliating, Kasimir?”
You pushed your hands under your armpits and shook your head.
“Well, she obviously thinks I cannot get ethics approval by myself. Why else would she team us up?”
Laura wiped a strain of hair behind her ear and caught up to you, walking shoulder to shoulder.
“I think she’s pairing us up because you believe in psychokinesis, and I don’t. Adversarial collaboration. You suggested it yourself.”
You shook your head, exhaling a big cloud of mist through your nose.
“She just cares about ethics going through.”
Laura pulled gloves out of her jacket pocket and put them on.
“Well, for what it's worth…you never really stood a chance to get instant approval. Using medical machinery on people for near-death research? I mean…I don’t know the details but…no ethics committee is going to wave that through.”
Your expression lightened somewhat, and I was glad that you had found such an excellent co-researcher in Laura. You let your eyes wander across my willows. Embarrassed by their leaflessness, I let the river glint bright light into your eyes. You turned forward again.
“Sorry, she’s forcing you to use me in your experiment. I guess you had it all planned out with your boyfriend.”
Laura shrugged.
“Two free assistants are better than one.”
You chuckled mirthlessly. Laura turned to look back towards Professor Hartmann’s office window.
“She knows you’re not a student, right?”
You briefly looked up at Laura and dropped your eyes again.
“I don’t know. She probably wouldn’t care. She just wants me to take care of the paperwork—which isn’t going great.”
Laura bumped her elbow into your side.
“Come on, Kasimir. You worry too much about what she thinks.” She smiled and studied your face. “Hartmann’s too old for you anyway.”
You scoffed out a little cloud. None of you talked while you passed the Myers Convocation Hall. Laura pointed at the library.
“How about I reserve a study space for tomorrow? We could go over your ethics documents together. I’m also free tonight. You could come by Sankt Albertus, and we can try my coin flipping setup.”
Personally, I rejected Laura’s proposed order, as I found your work more important than hers. You should have started on the ethics documents right away. You shrugged and opened your mouth, but a woman’s voice cut you off.
“Kasi! Kasi, darling!”
You froze, and your eyes widened. After a second of contemplation, you turned and spotted the approaching couple. Both were middle-aged, clad in tasteful black coats, and the man wore those round glasses that many of my students and teachers wore that year. The woman, tall and with short brown hair, looked vaguely familiar.
“There’s my beautiful boy,” the man said and embraced you. The woman took off her expensive gloves and touched your hair before pulling you into a long hug. Your mouth contorted, and your eyes searched the snow behind them.
“Mom. Dad. I did not expect you.”
Laura smiled and raised her eyebrows—clearly elated to meet your parents.
“Surprise visits, a fun new concept I have invented,” your dad said. “Your mother had a lecture not too far from here, and we spontaneously decided to come see our son.”
“And it’s good that we did,” the mother said, wiping away a tear, and inspecting your shoes. “Your winter coat and boots are at the hotel, darling. What did I tell you, Tom? He’s freezing up here.” 
I realized that you had gotten your height and attractive features from your mother. Your father was a little stooped and had a sizeable bald spot—although a friendly smile. You seemed too confabulated to make proper introductions, and so your father turned to Laura.
“And greetings to you as well. This is Professor Dr. Ingrid Schneider, and I’m Tom. We’re Kasimir’s parents.”
I was not surprised that you have academics in the family, Kasimir. Both talent and intelligence have a substantial genetic component.
“Excuse my silly husband,” your mother said and shook Laura’s hand. “I’m Ingrid.”
“Nice to meet you,” Laura said. I realized how rarely I saw her smiling. It rather suited her. You still brooded silently in the middle of the group.
“So?” your mother addressed Laura. “Are you also a biology student, like our Kasi?”
“Ah, biology,” the father said unprompted. “Still a great choice, son. Best gender ratio of all the sciences. In fact, your mother—”
“…was the only available girl in your physics class, yes,” the mother ended his sentence, still looking expectantly at Laura.
“I’m doing my PhD, actually,” Laura said, “I want to become a researcher myself.” Laura had taken the opportunity to distract your parents from the fact that you were by no means enrolled in my biology program. Simultaneously, she had clarified that she shared your parents’ field of work—an excellent response, and a clear sign that Ben’s social talents were rubbing off on her.
“Oh my,” the father said happily.
“A fellow bookworm,” the mother added. “Delightful. What’s your subject?”
Laura looked at you, noticing—like I did—that your contributions to the conversation were somewhat lacking.
“Technically, I’m at Kleinburg’s new parapsychology department.”
This remark shifted the mood. Your father’s face froze, and your mother staggered backwards, bumping into a passing student.
“Just a coincidence, Mom,” you said quickly, but your voice sounded weak, and you still stared past them towards the bridge.
“It isn’t,” your mother whispered. “It isn’t a coincidence.”
Your dad put his hand on his wife’s back, but she pushed him away and faced Laura.
“Kasi’s getting one of those pseudo-science degrees, too. Isn’t he? He’s part of your…sect.”
Your mother pointed her long finger right into Laura’s face. Laura raised her eyebrows and looked at you, but your mother started wailing, now facing her husband.
“Oh, what did I tell you, Tom? That’s why he wanted to go here. That’s the only reason he’s here.”
“Is it true, son?” your father asked. “Are you part of this…program? Is that why we never saw the admission letter?”
Against my snowy hedges, your head was red as an apple. Laura came to your help.
“Not all parapsychological research is pseudo-scientific. Kasimir and I are working on methodological improvements in the field. We’re not trying to prove anything that’s—”
“I’m sure your work is fine,” your father said, holding his hand up to Laura, and forcing a smile back on his face. “But our son has some…beliefs…that aren’t shared by all family members.”
“We really have to get going,” you mumbled. Your mother kept staring at you with anguish, and I realized where I recognized her from. She had given a guest lecture in my physics building a few years ago. Naturally, I could not recall her specialization as I rarely attend physics lectures personally.
“What about your scholarship?” your father asked. “Was that true? Do you need money? Where are you staying?”
You cleared your throat.
“Look, Laura and I really need to go now. Like she said, we’re involved in a research project and there are…deadlines.”
“Kasi—” the mother whispered, as if you had secretly enlisted for war. The tears sparkled like snowflakes in her blue eyes.
“Let us invite you two for dinner,” the father said suddenly. “We’re staying close to campus. No science talk. Just dinner.” His pained smile bounced from you to Laura and back.
“Sure,” you said, taking Laura by her hand and pulling her away. “Dinner sounds good.”
Your mother turned to face the river, pulled out a handkerchief, and held it to her face.
“We’re staying at the Einbach Hotel,” the father shouted after you. “We’ll be waiting there for you, okay?”

* * *

Now, was the encounter with your parents slightly dramatic? Sure. However, I did not consider it overly concerning at the time. Many of my students have complicated relationships with their parents, and I had already learned that my parapsychology students faced intra-family opposition at even higher rates. Quite understandably, I decided to concentrate on the positive. Your parents were attractive intellectuals with sufficient funds and a general willingness to support you during your studies. I still believe that this was a relatively favorable situation.
Plus, you should be aware that I had my own problems. Like an undergraduate fidgeting with a facial blemish, I kept returning to the basement window of the Hartmann Research Group laboratory, hoping to get insights into what happened in that basement. The project description in your ethics application—I hope I can say this by now—had been fairly ambiguous. 
On that same day, late in the afternoon, the light in the laboratory was switched on and I could see your and Professor Hartmann’s shadow moving behind the curtain. From the muffled sounds, I could tell that you were asking numerous questions which the professor answered in a somewhat strained tone while pointing at things in different corners of the room. When I rang the bell tower eight times, I started to doubt that you would have dinner with your parents at the Einbach Hotel, and when you stepped out of the Van Lommel Building, it was almost ten o’clock.
This might sound strange, but seeing you walk across my premises at night always filled me with delight. Maybe those were the most precious moments we had. Universities like me are often accused of caring about nothing except our buildings, gardens, and academic reputations, but I feel most like myself when a dedicated student works late, and traverses my campus in the dark. I relish few things more than accompanying Mr. Orkin-Rent on his nightly walkthroughs and finding a brilliant young mind hiding in an office or a corner of the library, long after opening hours have passed.
There was a glow around you that night, and you must have felt it too, as you kept your coat open, unfazed by the cold. You soon encountered my dear janitor who worked late to remove snow from the roof St Albertushaus using a mechanical contraption with a long stick and a rectangular cloth. He repeatedly extended this apparatus, sliding it under the thick blanket of snow, and a neat column of snow splatted down into the hedges.
“Good evening” you said and the janitor grunted either in acknowledgment or surprise. You pointed up.
“How come there’s so much snow on this roof?”
“They say it’s magic,” Mr. Orkin-Rent murmured and lined up the next avalanche. You laughed.
“I heard. Some students in the cafeteria said Sankt Albertushaus is haunted by an old spinster who loves to dress in white. Sankt Alberta.”
More snow slid from the roof and thundered down next to my janitor. 
“Well,” he said, “if you see any campus ghosts tonight, let them know that there might be too much snow on here—especially given the brittle tiles and the kids in the rooms below.”
It goes without saying that I would never let the roof collapse onto my Sankt Albertus students, and while Mr. Orkin-Rent was perfectly aware of that, I did not appreciate him pretending otherwise.
“Although it looks nice,” you said. “The snow makes the campus look…calm.”
Immediate vindication—thank you for that, Kasimir.
“The snow might be nice and well-behaved on this roof, but ask the tardy maths student how calm she feels after being buried by an avalanche on the other side of campus. Or the computer science student who spat his gum into the bushes—that icicle could’ve killed him.”
You furrowed your eyebrows as you watched Mr. Orkin-Rent poke at the next layer of snow.
“When you say it like that, it almost seems like those accidents were some sort of punishment. As if the snow had some sort of anger towards those students. Is that what you’re saying?”
The janitor lowered his apparatus and turned to you, suspicion in his old eyes.
“Parapsy major?”
You nodded and Mr. Orkin-Rent pursed his lips and shifted his weight on his better leg. Then he shook his head and lifted his machine again.
“No such thing as ghosts, kid. Now let me get rid of this snow without killing myself.”
You shrugged, but instead of continuing on your path, you took a turn into Sankt Albertus's front yard, passed the janitor, and rang the bell. From the upstairs floor came a deep, sonorous gong and Ben’s face briefly appeared in the window. He took a little longer than usual to come downstairs and open the door. After dark, receiving visitors was one of the prefix’s official tasks and while some inhabitants have requested room-specific bells, I prefer the same person to open the door every time. It adds to the cohesiveness and refinement of Sankt Albertushaus.
In a slight lapse of protocol, Ben wore a damp T-shirt and a towel around his hips as if he had been in the shower. He held a smaller towel folded over his forearm and bowed like a butler, a jest he had done previously.
“Ben Olafson, at your service sir. I assume you are scheduled for an after-hour visit with one of our residents. Whom may I alert of your arrival and what name may I give in reference?”
“Kasimir Schneider,” you said, smiling graciously at Ben’s drole behavior. “I was hoping to meet Laura Brenner.”
“Oh,” Ben said, mustering your pale face with an undeniable hint of jealousy, “are you sure that she’s expecting you?”
“I’m not too sure,” you conceded. “There was a bit of back and forth with my parents earlier. Anyway, tonight is the only time that I can help her with her research. Maybe mention that to her.”
“Sure, will do,” Ben said absentmindedly. “Kasimir you said, right?”
Snow crashed onto the floor behind you but neither of you paid attention to it.
“That’s right.”
Ben slowly moved aside and pointed you to the sofa in the small entrance hall.
“Okay, just get comfy here for a second,” he said, fighting to recover his jovial tone. “I will check if she’s available.”
He raced noisily up the stairs, securing the towel around his waist with one hand. You took care to clean the snow of your shoes before stepping inside, but instead of sitting down on the dedicated couch, you wandered around the small, carpeted hall, peering mischiveously into the wardrobes and drawers. Finding nothing but sheets, board games, and extra sets of cutlery, you finally found your seat. Less than a minute later, a wet-haired Laura descended the stairs, closely followed by Ben.
“Kasimir,” Laura said with joyful yet explicit surprise. “I thought you’d be at dinner with your parents.”
You got up and faced the couple.
“My mother wasn’t feeling too well, so I thought we could flip some coins after all. I would have come earlier, but I was in the lab—”
“Oh, don’t worry about it. I’ve set everything up in my room.”
Ben regarded her with obvious confusion as he arrived at the bottom of the stairs.
“Am I being fired as primary coin flipper?” he asked, attempting a humorous tone.
“Nobody’s fired,” Laura said, took the towel from Ben’s arm, and wrapped it around her head. “I need multiple coin flippers to ensure that my results are consistent—my supervisor’s idea.”
Ben’s smile relaxed a little.
“Well, alright. I guess I’ll go back to my room then.” He stretched out his hand to you. “Kasimir, it was nice to meet you. You’re more than welcome to join our Friday drinks here at Sankt Albertus. They happen every Friday, believe it or not, and we could definitely use some good dancers around here.”
You shook his hand and smiled.
“I’ll do my best.”
Ben went upstairs, and Laura guided you down the ground-floor corridor, awkwardly trying to fix the towel around her head.
“I told Ben that we went to my graduation ball together, but I never discussed your dancing skills with him, in case you were worried.”
“I wasn’t until now,” you said and followed Laura into her room. You stopped in the doorway. “Oh, wow. You really are set up.”
Even though I was unimpressed by your continued overuse of the ‘wow’ expression, I agreed with the general sentiment. Laura had pushed together her moving boxes in the center of the room and pulled a sheet over them to form a makeshift table. She had mounted her camera recorder on a three-legged stand, likely borrowed from the technology service desk. The box-table was empty except for a small electronic device that reminded me of Mr. Orkin-Rent’s alarm clock.
“Sit there,” Laura said and pointed at an additional chair that she had seemingly procured from another room.
She retrieved a sealed roll of coins from her desk and checked the battery status of the camera.
“Scooch a little closer to the table,” she said. “And turn the random-number generator so that it faces the camera.”
You took the little machine in front of you and turned it away from you.
“Can you test it?” Laura asked. “Just press the button on top, so I can check if it’s visible on the recording.”
You activated the machine repeatedly and the gadget produced a clacking series of ones and zeros. Laura nodded and switched on the camera.
“This is Laura Brenner, recording the first coin flipping session with the new two-person setup. It’s the tenth of December, and today’s coin flipper is Kasimir Schneider.”
You lifted your hand in the direction of the camera.
“Kasimir, can you confirm that you cannot see the display of the random number generator from where you’re sitting?”
“I confirm.”
“Okay, good.” Laura lifted the roll of coins up to the camera, broke it open, and poured them into a plastic cup. “I retrieved this roll of coins this afternoon from Kleinburg Bank. The receipt is available upon request.”
She placed the cup in front of you, turned the camera slowly to give an overview of the room, and pointed it at the table again.
“If the RNG shows a zero, I will try to influence the coin so that it lands heads. Otherwise, I go for tails. In the next session, it will be reversed.”
Both of you settled into your chairs, and Laura looked at you expectantly.
“Ready?”
Your eyes widened, and you looked at the plastic cup
“So I just grab a coin and flip it onto the table? Any specific technique I should use?”
“No,” Laura said, “Whatever technique feels right. You can also switch it up, if you want. Just make sure to change coins after every trial. Oh, wait…”
She got up and rummaged through her desk drawer, producing a notebook and a pen.
 “It would be nice if you could also write down what you flipped. That way, I can double-check my video transcriptions later.” She handed you the utensils and sat down again. “I will trigger the RNG for each trial. After I click the button, give me about five seconds to prepare, alright?”
You nodded, took a coin out of the cup, and readied it on your thumb. Laura clicked the button on the little gadget, and the number one snapped into view. If I remember correctly, Laura now had to force the coin to land tails. She stared wildly at the coin as if trying to set it aflame in your hand. In that moment, I fully believed that, if anyone possessed psychokinetic abilities, it was Laura. You gave her a moment longer to concentrate before flipping the coin onto the cardboard table. It landed with a dull plop: tails. 
I was proud of her, and while you had no knowledge of the intended outcome, her success was likely obvious from her determined wipe at her mouth. You noted down the result, Laura reactivated the random number generator, and you flipped the coin again.
As the two of you settled into your rhythm, I soon lost count of Laura’s successes. She had streaks of good and bad trials, and soon her face started to dampen and she took off her sweater.
After two hours of silent collaboration, which were only interrupted whenever the coin rolled off the table and Laura exclaimed, ‘invalid trial,’ you finally put the coin aside.
“Should we change roles? It’s already midnight.”
Laura huffed and pursed her lips, but her shirt was sweated through, and she nodded grimly.
“Sure, I need to change the camera batteries anyway.” She got up and rubbed her face. “We have coffee in the kitchen, if you want, although based on your shaking hands, I guess Hartmann already force-fed you plenty.”
You laughed.
“I want to see your hands after flipping a million coins.”
“Let’s hope it was a thousand.”
Laura checked and rewound the video on the camera display. You kept your eyes on her.
“So…how did you do?”
“I don’t know,” she said. “Felt pretty close to fifty-fifty, but it’s too early to tell. I will do the analyses once we have all the data.”
Laura picked up a crinkled plastic bottle from her bed and took eager sips before offering it to you—not exactly outstanding hospitality, but I did not admit her to Sankt Albertushaus for her social skills. Surprisingly, you accepted the bottle and finished it.
“But did you feel like you were influencing the coin? What am I supposed to do, exactly?”
Laura collected a few coins that had rolled off the table.
“Different techniques are possible,” she said. “Today, you should manifest the outcome by seeing it happen in my mind’s eye. In other words, you should visualize the outcome.”
“I’ve heard of manifestation,” you said. “In a survey, they found that lots of people believe in it—the law of attraction. One can make things happen by thinking about them.”
“I guess it’s related,” Laura said, softly clipping a new battery into the camera. “You should simply picture the coin landing on the right side. It’s harder than it looks.”
You nodded solemnly.
“Have you tried to explain your research to your parents?”
Laura opened the window to let the cold air rush inside.
“You’ve heard my dad’s opinion about any research that isn’t engineering. He’s not the type to believe in psi phenomena—”
“Professor Hartmann is an engineer too!” you interjected.
Laura grimaced.
“It’s just hard for him to accept that I’m getting my PhD in parapsychology. It’s kind of hard for myself, I guess. But my mom always reads her horoscope and stuff. She was quite interested in the general idea of psychokinesis.”
“Well, at least you have one then.”
“Well,” Laura said, looking out into the night, “like I said, I mostly agree with my dad.” 
You slapped your thighs.
“How can you agree with your dad? All night, you’ve been trying to influence coins with your mind.”
“I’m testing whether I can influence coins with my mind,” Laura said, and unwrapped a new roll of coins. “I don’t necessarily believe it works.”
You wiped your hands on your pants, opening and closing your mouth multiple times before speaking.
“Some things only work if you believe in them.”
Laura sat down opposite of you again and pulled a crease out of the table sheet.
“Well, I believe in proper methods and analysis. That’s what science is. I don’t need to believe in paranormal stuff to do proper research.”
“Maybe you do,” you said, in a dangerously quiet tone. “You wouldn’t work as a medical doctor if you didn’t believe in medicine.”
“But I could,” Laura said. “I could just learn which pills to use for which diseases. No need to believe in anything.”
“I bet your patients could tell,” you said, “…that you don’t believe in what you’re doing.”
Laura took a deep breath through her nose as if she did not want to waste time on this discussion anymore, which was unfortunate because I found it much more stimulating than the endless coin flipping. She checked her watch.
“So does this mean you don’t want to help me anymore?”
You cocked your head back and frowned.
“No, of course, I’m helping. I’m just saying that you should analyze our results separately.” You put on a cheeky grin. “Because I’m going to be much better at psychokinesis than you.”
Laura ignored your jest and checked her watch again.
“Alright, I don’t have any classes scheduled for tomorrow, so we can go as long as you want.”
You nodded and smirked.
“I don’t have any classes either.”
She laughed.
“That I can believe.”
The two of you sat in Laura’s room and threw coins for a long time. At some point you made coffee in the Sankt Albertus kitchen. When the first light appeared in the sky, Laura’s finger started bleeding. You told Laura that you knew your way out, and when you passed the wardrobe in the entrance hall, you opened it, stole two bed sheets, and disappeared into the morning gloom.

* * *

A few days later, I was busy inspecting some damage on my wooden pier, trying to decide whether to accuse the beavers that had moved to Kleinburg River, when I heard shrill voices from inside the administrative offices. One of the voices belonged to your mother, and based on her furious tone, she had just met the administrative wall that was Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov.
“Kasimir is my son. He is not well, and I demand that you give me his class schedule and his current address right now.”
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov’s face showed the expression she reserved for visitors who dared to use the word ‘demand’ in her office.
“This university abides by national privacy laws, Mrs. Schneider. Even if you had a maternity test with you, I could not divulge any information about our students.”
“So he is enrolled here?”
“I did not say that.”
Your mother slapped the desk, and her wedding ring clacked on the wood.
“He’s part of this bogus new program, isn’t he? How can a modern university even teach parapsychology?”
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov switched on her computer, indicating that she had other stuff to do.
“It is a mystery to all of us, Mrs. Schneider. Now, is there anything else I can do for you?”
Your mother pointed at Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov.
“My husband and I have donated a considerable amount to this university. I used to give lectures here—”
The secretary aligned some documents on her desk and met your mother’s gaze with no sign of nervousness.
“You’re free to end your contributions, Mrs. Schneider, but I should let you know that the parapsychology program is externally funded, and surprisingly well so. Now, in the spirit of improving this university, if you could leave me to my—”
Your tall mother leaned over the secretary’s desk and opened her mouth as if to bite.
“You cannot withhold my child from me! I am his mother, and I am going to protect him.”
Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov rose to her feet, a rare occasion in her many years of service.
“And I am the head secretary. I am going to protect the private correspondence of all our students and applicants. If your son wanted to speak with you, I’m sure he’d call.”
I was proud of my secretary and assumed that she had finally recognized the need to support your work, but as soon as your mother had stormed out, Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov picked up the telephone and called Professor Hartmann. 
During the brief call, the secretary gave a fierce warning that all research assistants needed to be enrolled at Kleinburg University and a vague threat that there would be an investigation of the student status of ‘young people in and around the parapsychology department’. The latter might have been a bluff, and Professor Hartmann’s voice, barely audible through the device, remained calm. Through the electronic distortions, I could make out that the professor had just been approached by the father of a troubled student. Unfortunately, Professor Hartmann did not know the student’s current address and had thus advised the father to visit the student desk. Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov hesitated briefly and replied through gritted teeth.
“As you are a teacher, I consider sharing the following information a legislative gray area: There is no student named Kasimir Schneider. Thus, by extension, there shouldn’t be any research assistants with that name either. In fact, I have zero research assistantships registered for the parapsychology department or Hartmann Research Group. Can you confirm that information?”
There was a brief moment of silence on the other side of the line, then Professor Hartmann confirmed.

* * *

At first, I felt a little ambivalent about Professor Hartmann’s lack of truthfulness towards my secretary. However, after continued reflection, I came to realize that, once your research had shaken the foundations of science, your semi-legal employment would merely become a historical side note, a ‘fun fact’. I could see it being part of future trivia nights and pub quizzes—like Einstein’s poor grades in high school, or Freud’s temporary infatuation with cocaine.
As the Christmas holidays approached, I became more and more intrigued by your work. Having accompanied you from the start, I felt like your ambitions and obstacles were mine, and it was my primary duty to support you. Thus, I increasingly leaned on Mr. Orkin-Rent to keep the campus in check. 
On a Thursday morning, I moved alongside you towards the Van Lommel Building. You carefully maneuvered the icy path in front of you—which my janitor should have salted—and did not notice your parents lurking on a bench close by. 
Trying to create a diversion, I bribed a hibernating ground squirrel with a lifetime of walnuts, urging it to jump out of its burrow, run up to your parents, and bite your father in the ankle. He screamed, causing you to stop and look in their direction. While your parents engaged in an emotional yet drolly scientific debate about squirrel-transmitted diseases, you dodged behind my hornbeam hedges and walked in a large circle to the back entrance of the Van Lommel Building.
Up in Professor Hartmann’s office, she had fully deinstalled her predecessor’s bookshelves to make room for a projected image of her computer screen. You took a seat and grabbed the cup of coffee that had been waiting for you.
“All good?” the professor asked, with a glance at your shaking, skinny body in the armchair.
“Yes, I’m fine,” you said. “Just caught a bit of a draft while sleeping.” You took a demonstrative sip of the warm coffee.
“Alright then,” Professor Hartmann said and took a seat behind her desk. I noticed that she, too, had dark circles. She ran an unsteady hand through her unwashed hair. Her white curls appeared thinner than a few months ago.
“Given that we’re far behind schedule, I prepared some notes on your ethics revision.” She clicked something on her computer, and the wall behind her filled with digital text. “Suggestion one: Don’t call them ‘test subjects’ or ‘participants.’ Everybody who is hooked up to the machine will be an official co-author. That way, our experiment is a self-study which might look less concerning to the ethics committee. No student involvement.”
You nodded, and although your tired eyes twitched continuously, you started copying the professor’s bullet points into your notebook.
“Edit two,” Professor Hartmann said, “you should mention that controlled oxygen deprivation has been done countless times in medical studies and can be considered a routine procedure. I collected ten references you can throw at them.”
Again, you nodded and took notes, only pausing to take another shaky sip of coffee. Professor Hartmann pushed the coffee can in your direction.
“Edit three, say that the purpose of the study is to ‘measure the performance of standard medical machinery’—remove all mentions of parapsychology. Any insight that we might get about the afterlife will be purely accidental.”
You made a face and shook your head.
“I think we should be able to say what we’re researching. This all seems a bit…backwards.”
Professor Hartmann wiped her face. I rarely saw her leave the Van Lommel Building at night, and assumed that she slept in the bed I had glimpsed in the laboratory.
“Well observed; change it anyway,” she said shortly, studying the list on her monitor while tapping her finger on the desk. “These edits should get you quite far. If you need any more help, ask Laura. I have to file a million other documents for that damned secretary.”
“I won’t need any help,” you said, sounding somewhat unnerved.
A brief knock and Laura walked in.
“Sorry about being early, but I heard my name.” Her face was red, although it was a fairly mild day. “Your parents are camping out outside, Kasimir. They’re questioning everyone who comes in or out of the building and showing photos of you.”
You stayed quiet, playing with a pencil in your hand.
“Laura,” Professor Hartmann said. “Kasimir told me that he flipped some coins for you, but that you have not helped him with his ethics application.”
I fully supported the professor’s indignation. Laura had promised to help you in return for your coin-flipping support. We needed results before the next academic rankings.
“Not yet is what I said,” you chimed in as Laura shot you an angry look. “We didn’t have time yet, that’s all.”
“No time?” Professor Hartmann echoed incredulously. “I am the one who doesn’t have time. That’s why I have two research assistants.”
Laura squinted.
“Who’s your second research assistant?” she growled.
Professor Hartmann looked confused, as if she had truly forgotten that Laura was a fully-fledged PhD student rather than an assistant. Laura scoffed and sat down.
“In my own research—which Kleinburg University pays me for—I have made decent progress, if anyone’s interested.” She pulled out a thick notebook. “Ben and I added twenty thousand coin tosses over the last days—all documented on film.” She opened her backpack to present a mass of labeled cassette recordings.
“Oh. Okay, good,” Professor Hartmann said, clearly trying to make up for her faux pas. “Did you analyze the data? Any psi effects?”
“I won’t analyze the data until it’s complete,” Laura said, “and for that, I need a lot more participants. Ben is trying to recruit people from Sankt Albertus, but I am not sure they will want to help.”
“One can always ask—” Professor Hartmann said, but Laura cut her off with a raised hand.
“What I need from you is more cameras. Data collection will take way too long if all dyads need to use the same camera.”
Professor Hartmann scratched her temple and leaned onto her desk.
“Well, I suppose you could take the cameras from the downstairs lab—at least until we have ethics approval…” She looked over to you, “…which I expect shortly.”
Your eyes were still glued to the film cassettes in Laura’s bag.
“I think I noticed a flaw in your research method,” you said thoughtfully. Laura cocked her head.
“Oh yeah?”
“Maybe it’s not just the mentalizer affecting the coin—maybe it’s also the flipper.”
Laura stared at you, eyebrows drawn together.
“Why would that happen?”
“Well,” you said, “whenever it was my turn to flip the coin, I put it on my thumb heads-up. So over the course of the session, I kept seeing heads. I kept thinking about the shape, the person, et cetera. You said that visualization is a psychokinesis technique, so maybe I affected the coin as well.”
There was a moment of silence as Laura stared at you intensely—or she might have stared through you.
“So are you saying that there should be more heads in the trials where you flipped the coin?”
“I mean, I visualized it…I think.”
Laura pursed her lips and thought for a second.
“It doesn’t matter,” she said. “I can account for the coin’s starting position in my analysis. Plus, any cross-contamination of the coin flipper should, at best, weaken the effect of the mentalizer. It shouldn’t eradicate it.”
You shrugged weakly, and I have to admit that I also had trouble following Laura’s advanced arguments. What mattered to me was that you were both clearly talented and that your projects would likely lead to prominent discoveries.
“Okay then,” Professor Hartmann said and sat down behind her computer screen. “Laura, I will authorize your card, and you can you can get the cameras out of the lab. Kasimir, you said you have a job interview, correct?”
You nodded and picked up your briefcase.
“The salary of your research assistantship isn’t enough?” Laura asked, keeping her eyes on Professor Hartmann.
“Well, of course he’s getting paid,” the professor answered on your behalf, “but as Kasimir said…being a night guard means getting double-pay for working on his ethics application.”
Laura turned to look at you, standing in the doorway.
“Night guard? Where’s your job interview?”
You opened your mouth, but nothing came out, so again Professor Hartmann answered for you.
“Soft drink company across town.”
You kept your eyes to the window, as if trying to remember if that was really the location of your job interview. Laura bit her lip.
“Why didn’t you tell me, Kasimir?” she asked quietly. “I told you I can talk to my dad.”
You mumbled something, pointed at your watch, and left.
“Your parents want you home for Christmas,” Laura shouted after you before the door fell shut. Then she wiped her mouth and was quiet while Professor Hartmann typed things into her computer.

* * *

In the following week, you spent fewer nights in the laboratory; so I assumed your application as a night guard had been successful. Naturally, I would have preferred to spend those hours together, but I still saw you on campus every day, walking to and from the Van Lommel Building, visiting the library, or auditing Professor Hartmann’s courses, which mostly featured guest speakers. It was during the last lecture of the year—I believe it was the twenty-third of December—that the most curious incident occurred. 
Professor Hartmann stepped in front of the class and announced that the Christmas lecture would also be given by a guest speaker, a ‘rising star in parapsychology.’ Oh, how proud I felt when Laura got up and took her space behind the speaker's desk. One of the youngest members of Sankt Albertushaus, a first-year PhD student, and already transitioning into the role of a lecturer. I echoed the audience’s applause from the walls, and even felt sentimental dew drops forming under my rain pipes. Ben, sitting in the first row, applauded the longest, and I noticed that he had brought various Sankt Albertus students with him.
Laura placed her notebook on the speaker's desk and turned to Professor Hartmann.
“Thank you for the introduction, Professor. For future reference, I actually prefer ‘methodologist’ over ‘parapsychologist’.”
There were some raised eyebrows and mirthful glances, but Professor Hartmann merely gave a conciliatory nod. Laura took a sip of water—I was glad that Ben had bought her an elegant glass version to replace her crinkled water bottle. She looked out into the audience and spotted you, sitting inconspicuously in the middle of the audience. You gave her a curt nod. Mutual support among my outstanding students—I was glad to see it.
“Today I will talk about my very first study at this department,” Laura began. “We finished the data collection last night, and although our results are subject to change, the ones of you who are interested in psychokinesis will probably find them quite interesting.”
There was an audible scoff from the back of the class. Heads turned. In the last row sat your parents. Your mother held her arms crossed, shaking her head, and generally looking quite upset, while your father touched her shoulder and whispered something in her ear. Professor Hartmann raised her arm.
“Could the audience—”
“No please,” Laura interrupted her supervisor and tried to make eye contact with your mother. “Mrs. Schneider, I promise that even you, as a professor of physics, will find my talk interesting. Just give me a few minutes.”
A few rows ahead, your face turned red and you kept your eyes stocially on the blackboard behind Laura. She smiled confidently.
“Now, I know that most of you just want to hear whether we found a psi effect,” she said and grabbed a piece of chalk, “but first, we have to spend some time on research methodology and how we improved the experimental design of Weber and Weinhold.”
Now, while some eyes glazed over, your mother sat up and your father readied a ballpoint pen and a leather-clad notebook. Laura began with a rough drawing of a person flipping a coin, explaining how previous research had tested the idea that people could influence the outcome of seemingly random events. Then she described various problems with these studies, including shocking cases of fraud and data fabrication, which had apparently contributed to parapsychology’s bad reputation among the sciences. I wondered whether my poor performance in this year’s academic ranking might have to do with the introduction of parapsychology at Kleinburg University. Usually, I tune out during lectures and observe the students instead, but the pecking order between different sciences is quite interesting to me.
Laura started adding things to her initial drawing, explaining how, through camera documentation and procedural improvements, she had been able to retest the controversial psychokinesis effect in a more rigorous way.
“Who’s to say you didn’t use a trick coin?” your mother interrupted. As a fellow lecturer, she should really know to raise her hand, and a few students frowned, but Laura pointed excitedly at your mother.
“That was indeed a challenge, and I implemented two solutions. The simple one is that all coins we used came from bank-sealed rolls, which were opened on camera. More importantly, a purposefully misbalanced coin couldn’t produce evidence in favor of psychokinesis in this study because the desired outcome was subject to change on every throw. The person picking and flipping the coins was unaware of the desired outcome. In other words, a trick coin could not bias our results.”
Your mother took a grudging note, and your father quickly raised his hand.
“Follow-up question: is the video data publicly available?”
Laura nodded.
“Yes, after I verified that all my analyses are correct, and our paper has been accepted for publication, all video cassettes will be available. You are free to run the numbers yourself.”
Your father nodded and even gave Laura a little smile. 
“Let’s get to the results,” she said and looked at Professor Hartmann. Your supervisor nodded, rolled a projector machine to the front, and switched it on. A flickering computer screen appeared on the ancient wall of the lecture hall. Professor Hartmann dimmed the lights, and a colorful barplot became visible over the dark wood. Trying to suppress a wave of nausea at the visual desecration of my oak wainscoting, I kept my eyes on Laura.
“As you can see from the two vertical bars,” she said, “out of two hundred thousand throws, the coin landed on the targeted side a total of 99,832 times. In other words, psychokinesis had a success rate of forty-nine point nine percent, which is statistically in line with a fifty-fifty.” You flared your nostrils as Laura wrote the numbers on the blackboard. “You can verify my calculations at home, but following Bayes' Theorem, our results are—statistically speaking—heavily in favor of a null effect.”
“In other words, psychokinesis doesn’t exist,” your mother interjected. Now you turned as well, throwing an exasperated look towards the back.
“We’re not quite done, Mrs. Schneider,” Laura said, and nodded towards Professor Hartmann, who clicked something on her laptop. The image changed slightly, now showing one bar slightly elevated above the other. Laura pointed at the projection.
“This is the data of one of my collaborators, Kasimir Schneider, who had the idea that the coin flipper might also exert a psychokinetic force onto the coin, overpowering the effect of the mentalizer. He suggested that, whenever he readied the coin on his thumb, he looked at the top side, thus visualizing a potential outcome and arguably affecting the coin. And as you can see in the chart, I indeed found a slight bias of the coin to land on the side that Kasimir was looking at, with a chance of fifty-two percent. This result comes pretty close to the numbers reported in Weber and Weinhold’s original study.”
Under the observant eyes of your parents, you sat up rigidly, staring at the barplot and bending a pencil in between your fingers. 
“Naturally, I followed up on this,” Laura continued, “and I found very similar results for all the other coin flippers as well. Whichever side pointed up before the throw had an increased chance of also pointing up at the end of the throw.
“It’s real,” you whispered. “This is proof.”
In the back of the class, your mother had her elbows on the table and her hands in her silky hair. She stared at the graphic in obvious disbelief. Your dad squinted at the formula on the blackboard and copied it into his notebook.
“Now,” Laura said over the murmuring in the audience, “if the subconscious visualization of the coin flippers had brought about this result, it would be clear evidence in favor of psychokinesis—a classic psi effect.”
“Preposterous,” your mother mumbled quietly. In the front, your eyes bore into Laura.
“However,” she continued, “it was quite surprising that all the coin flippers would exert such a strong psychokinetic force, while none of the mentalizers succeeded. Even stranger, because there is overlap between both groups, as some people changed roles throughout the study.”
“There must be some confound,” your father said to your mother, loud enough for the class to hear. “Something is wrong with her method.”
“I thought the same, Mr. Schneider,” Laura said, looking excitedly towards the back row, “and so I did some interdisciplinary reading on coin flipping and aerodynamics.” She pulled a textbook out of her backpack and held it up for the audience. The title read ‘Randomness: What is it?’ 
“It turns out,” Laura said, “that coin throws are never truly random; the chances are never fifty-fifty.”
Your mother’s eyes widened, and she got up from her seat.
“Rotational precession.”
Laura smiled and nodded.
“That’s right, Mrs. Schneider: Rotational precession. Some of your physics colleagues indeed hypothesized that coins are more likely to land on the side that they were flipped from because of a phenomenon called precession: a coin spends more of its flight time with the same side pointing up as it did during launch. You can picture it as a sort of ‘stabilizing wobble’ of the coin. Once we factor in the precession effect, the effect of psychokinesis is completely erased.”
The pencil broke in your hand, and you jumped up.
“A wobble? Are you kidding me? I knew you would do this! I knew that, once you found proof, you would keep looking for an alternative explanation. How is that good science? I mean…what are you even saying? All the coins in the world are unfair? Give me a break!”
Your mother leaned forward, and I was afraid she would fall onto the student sitting in front of her.
“Kasi, rotational precession has been studied for ages. It’s a scientific fact. There’s no such thing as supernatural forces, or ghosts, or—”
You turned around to face her, pure hatred in your eyes.
“You don’t get to decide what’s a scientific fact.”
“If I may finish,” Laura said loudly. The audience grew quiet, but neither you nor your mother sat down. “Because my results fit two competing theories, psychokinesis and rotational precession, I extended my original experiment. In this new version, all coin flippers were blindfolded. They couldn’t see the random number generator, the mentalizer, or the coin they were holding. Thus, any deviation from fifty-fifty could no longer be due to their visualization of the up-facing side. If we found the same effect as before, we knew it must be due to rotational precession.”
Professor Hartmann flipped to the next slide, and you groaned at the sight of the plot.
“Fifty-two, forty-eight,” Laura said, sounding almost pitiful. “Exactly the same as before. The coin flipper never had any effect. All results stem from established physical phenomena.”
Your mother thrust her arm forward to point at the plot.
“Basic physics, there you have it!”
You silently shook your head under the expectant glances of the Sankt Albertus crowd.
“This doesn’t prove anything,” you murmured, “you never believed in it.” The students around you giggled until you slowly rose to your feet. “Why would these forces ever reveal themselves to you. You’re conventionalists—all of you.”
“Alright,” Professor Hartmann said, brightening the ceiling lights, and joining Laura in the front. “Thank you very much, Laura, for an engaging talk.”
Laura let her eyes shift from you to the first row.
“I wanted to thank Ben and all my coin flippers at Sankt Albertus—”
“Tell them,” you cried, and Laura winced. But your words seemed to be directed at Professor Hartmann.
“I’m sorry, Kasimir?” the professor said, lifting her eyebrows.
You threw a quick look over your shoulder as if to check that your parents were still listening.
“Tell them how we met,” you hissed, peering intently at your supervisor. “The first time we saw each other.”
“I don’t think I follow,” Professor Hartmann said, dropping her voice and squinting menacingly.
“Son, please,” your father tried to interject, but you silenced him with a brief hand gesture.
“We saw each other,” Kasimir said, leering wildly at Professor Hartmann. “We talked.”
The other students were as enchanted by this confusing exchange as I was. Your obsession with Professor Hartmann had always intrigued me.
“Maybe this is a discussion for after class,” the professor said through her teeth. “I don’t think your remarks have anything to do with Laura’s work on psychokinesis.”
“Of course, it has to do with psychokinesis,” you cried. “Near-death experiences, psychokinesis, telepathy…it’s all just consciousness. You know this. You said this to me three years ago.”
In the back row, I could see tears and shock in your mother’s eyes.
“We saw each other in the afterlife,” you said, almost pleadingly. “We met on the beach. I told you how I had died, and then you said your name was Dr. Katharina Hartmann and that you weren’t really dying. You were just testing a machine.”
Professor Hartmann did not reply, her eyes silently tearing into yours. Your father descended the middle stairs.
“I’m sorry, Professor. Our son Kasimir had a medical emergency a while back. He went into cardiac arrest while we were at work, and the event has left its mark on his mental well-being.” 
In the back of the lecture hall, your mother whimpered audibly. 
“Shut up, both of you,” you yelled, turning back to face Professor Hartmann. “I said your name, five seconds after I woke up. The nurses heard me say it.”
Professor Hartmann’s jaw muscles worked under her skin. She raised her eyebrows at you.
“The machine has never been used, Kasimir. I told you this.”
“You’re lying!” Kasimir said. “You’ve been on the island. You’ve met Finn. We were there.”
Professor Hartmann’s face stayed hard and, at least for me, impossible to read. You whirled around, searching for support among the parapsychology students, but only finding confusion and timidness. Finally, your eyes settled on Laura. Her face was filled with pain…and pity. You turned and stormed past your father, out of the lecture hall.

* * *

On the following day, the twenty-fourth of December, my campus lay mostly abandoned. Many students left Kleinburg over Christmas and most of my buidings—including the library—stay closed. Deciding to treat myself, I renewed the snow on my lawns, and glided over my roofs—enjoying the view of my river banks.
I saw movement through a window of the Van Lommel Building and settled into Professor Hartmann’s office. Laura paced past the window, asking her supervisor which journal might be willing to publish her coin-flipping paper. However, Professor Hartmann was, as per usual, distracted by the computer on her desk—clicking again and again on the email program. From the titles of her messages, I could tell that my secretary was repeatedly inquiring about financial forms. Additionally, and this was most intriguing to me, Professor Hartmann had received numerous reminders and warnings about overdue rental payments. Given that the sender appeared as ‘Kleinburg University - Financial Department’, I assumed that she was behind on her payments for the stolen laboratory. Laura cleared her throat and repeated her question.
“Do you think I could go for a methods journal? Or do I have to submit to a parapsychology one?”
“Hmm, that’s a good question,” Professor Hartmann murmured, and moved her clicking device. At least she had placed a little mat underneath to avoid scratching the desk. “Either one could work, I think.”
“Sure,” Laura said in a dissatisfied tone, “but I assumed that you and Kasimir might prefer a parapsychology journal, because we’d get reviewers that are more…involved.”
Professor Hartmann looked up from her screen.
“Why does Kasimir’s preference matter?”
“Well, he has contributed original ideas. That makes him a co-author. All co-authors must approve the selected journal.”
Professor Hartmann sighed and closed her email program.
“I don’t think Kasimir wants to be a co-author on your paper.” She rolled her mobile chair to the side so she could see Laura behind the screen. “...but speaking of Kasimir, have you seen him after…your lecture?”
“No,” Laura admitted, and solemn silence filled the office. “He might have gone home over Christmas. At least that’s what I hope.”
“Maybe,” Professor Hartmann said and rummaged through her desk drawers, “but I found this in front of my door, just half an hour ago.”
She placed a stack of ethics applications on her desk, all with a bright red stamp on the front reading ‘Rejected.’
“Oh, shit,” Laura said and touched her chin. “Maybe this explains why he was so…”
“I think so,” Professor Hartmann said and got up. She walked to the window and peered out, as if hoping to spot you hurrying across the snow. The frost had laid bare the ivy vines around the window.
“I’m in a bit of time trouble, to be honest,” Professor Hartmann said, and adjusted the space suit hanging next to her desk. “The afterlife machine isn’t quite ready yet, but we might lose the lab after the holidays.”
Laura pulled her notebook closer and furrowed her eyebrows.
“Why would that happen?”
Professor Hartmann waved her off.
“Just some administrative issues. Kleinburg makes me pay through the nose for a little lab space.”
“I thought you had funders who—”
“My funders expect results,” Professor Hartmann continued. “What I hadn’t considered is that we’d be forced to go through Kleinburg’s ethics procedure.”
She turned back to the room and put one hand on the desk while glancing at Laura.
“Given that Kasimir is wrestling with certain…distractions, and given that the ethic committee and the secretaries seem to like you—”
“That ethics application has nothing to do with me,” Laura interjected. “I’m not working on near-death experiences.”
This remark, I have to say, was a little disappointing. Where was Laura’s support when you needed it? The professor ruffled her hair, and I could see entire white locks deatching from her scalp and falling below her desk.
“Well, some people—including Kasimir—do believe that out-of-body experiences and psychokinesis share some commonalities. Plus, my position at this university is dependent on my continued funding, so if you want to keep me as your supervisor—”
“It doesn’t matter who writes the ethics application,” Laura said, pointing at the stack of rejected documents. “What you’re applying for is killing people, even if just temporarily. No ethics board would ever—”
“It’s a short delay between heartbeats,” Professor Hartmann protested and grabbed the armrest of Laura’s chair. “All I’m asking is that you support your struggling friend while I finish building the machine. Once we have the money for next year, we’ll go back to coin flipping.”
Laura stashed away her notebook, squeezed herself past Professor Hartmann, and picked up her coat.
“I’m sorry, Professor, but Kleinburg University doesn’t pay me to do near-death research, and even if, I wouldn’t do it. Sure, Kasimir did help me out, so I will check whether he’s okay, but I will not get involved in your shady experiments in the basement.”
With that, Laura left.

* * *

Unlike Laura and Professor Hartmann, I did not concern myself much with your idiosyncratic outbursts and occasional absences. You had always had neurotic tendencies, but non-normative behavior can be expected from the scholarly avant-garde, and once your academic successes would come in, your daily conduct would smooth out as well. I have seen it many times. 
Thus, rather than spending the Christmas holidays worrying about your mental state, or overpreparing your return, I did my own research about this mysterious energy that you had called psi.
I leafed through the books that you had reserved under Professor Hartmann’s name, and found that you had been quite correct: consciousness, and the transfer of consciousness, appear to underly many parapsychological phenomena. To my delight, even quantum physicists acknowledge that consciousness appears to leave traces wherever it goes, a discovery that has deeply unnerved conventional physicists—people who had always struck me as oppressively unimaginative. 
Additionally, consciousness is not reserved for human organisms; it can be found in animals and—according to many ancient belief systems—even in objects. Naturally, I realized that the notion of animism, and by extension all of parapsychology, was really about me.
Having listened to me for a while, you likely acknowledge that I am most certainly conscious, even though my consciousness is housed in a varying set of buildings, objects, and plants on campus. That is to say, I could have easily influenced the outcome of Laura’s coin tosses, had I felt like it. I even control animals—to a degree—although people tend to ascribe any resulting behaviors to the animal itself. For instance, one of the campus rabbits, Alan, had a reputation for lounging around in areas with high information flow. Any secrets shared in the presence of his big ears were likely to be leaked to university officials and the janitor. A Sankt Albertus student had named the rabbit after Alan Turing, the famous code breaker. What people do not understand is that the rabbit himself never had any personal inclination towards spying. He simply did the job that I gave him in exchange for food and secure housing.
A week earlier, the rabbit had told me about Ben’s plans to host a New Year’s party for the inhabitants of Sankt Albertushaus. My dear headboy had already attempted such an event last year with mixed success. Most of my fourteen top students had been happy to receive an invitation to a New Year’s party, as they tend to be socially undernourished. I imagine they were especially glad that the event took place on their beloved campus. However, during last year’s party—dinner is probably a better term for it—there was a somewhat awkward mood. As per usual, Ben had tried to cure people’s inhibitions and the prevailing homesickness by pushing activities like singing and dancing, which further subtracted from the mood. Thus, Ben was understandably concerned that my dear elite might skip this year’s party. Personally, I doubted that many of them had alternative engagements on New Year’s Eve.
The rabbit informed me that Ben was more determined than ever to make his New Year’s Party a success. He had distributed fabulous invites to the residents, indicating a festive dress code and a shared departure time from Sankt Albertushaus to Meyer’s Convocation Hall. The rabbit also relayed that Laura had pitched a somewhat outrageous idea to Ben: merging the Sankt Albertus dinner with the annual celebrations of Kleinburg University’s secretarial and blue-collar staff, headed by Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov and Mr. Orkin-Rent, respectively. It seemed a somewhat desperate strategy to liven up the event, but I am not a human and can err in my social intuitions.
My dear janitor tends to become quite sentimental during the holidays, and so I was not surprised when he immediately agreed to Laura and Ben’s proposal. What was more baffling was that Laura also convinced Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov to let her secretaries share a buffet and a dance floor with gardeners, security personnel, and worst of all, students. At the time, I assumed that Laura’s excellent grades and flawless paperwork factored into my secretary’s decision. Seeing Laura, Mr. Orkin-Rent, and Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov whistle Christmas melodies together while decorating the Myers Convocation Hall was touching, albeit surreal. 
Do not think that I forced them to rely on decorations from other events. I actively supported the event by bestowing Ben with an envelope from ‘your most faithful institution, Kleinburg University,’ in which I congratulated him on his excellent efforts as Sankt Albertus’s headboy, and made a generous contribution to the party fund.
On the last night of the year, the Sankt Albertus crowd dressed up, as Ben had requested, and met in the entrance hall before floating across campus together, like a silent swarm of beautiful starlings. Eager to play my part, I let their shoes and tuxedos shine like black coals against the nightly snow, and I let the wind howl in my chimneys, like a ship greeting its crew.
Mr. Orkin-Rent, wearing a jovial albeit somewhat undignified red paper hat, held open the grand entrance door to the convocation hall, and the secretaries, who had arrived ten minutes prior, already sat at the long table in the back of the room.
A few shy Sankt Albertus students motioned to sit as far away from the administrators as possible, but Ben pulled them out of their chairs, and Mr. Orkin-Rent spontaneously decided that all tables should be pushed together. Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov, driven by eggnog or the Christmas spirit, congratulated the janitor on his ‘interesting hat’ and pointed out that the seat next to her was available.
When the calloused gardeners finally joined the dinner—I think they had already been drinking beers in their shed—the Sankt Albertus students were surrounded by loud adults and comical behavior, which gave them plenty of material for whispers and giggles. Isn’t Ben just a brilliant orchestrator of such events, Kasimir? Irrespective of the upcoming incident between the two, you have to admit his interpersonal talents—although I suppose it was Laura’s idea to merge the three parties.
Seeing the different communities of Kleinburg University sit together and share mashed potatoes with meatballs made me feel warm and tingly from the roots of my trees to the tops of my towers.
After dinner, Ben lifted his glass and addressed the students with a well-rehearsed speech that even managed to quiet down the gardeners. He ended his speech as follows, I remember every word: “As you know, I’ve always tried to create a sense of community at Sankt Albertus and, as you know, my Friday Drinks were not quite as popular as I had hoped.” There were amused glances between the students, and Mr. Orkin-Rent cheered something along the lines of: “Don’t let the campus ghost hear you’re having drinks!”—a somewhat unnecessary remark, I think.
Ben waited for the noise to subside before continuing.
“It was only thanks to Laura, the newest member of our group, a brilliant methodologist, and my girlfriend—” Laura smirked and blushed. “—that I finally succeeded in getting you nerds to bond a little. Who knew that you preferred silently flipping coins together rather than talking and having drinks?”
At this, there was laughter from all tables—apparently, the introversion of my Sankt Albertus students had not gone unnoticed by the staff. I let the candlelight shine flatteringly on the faces of all attendees. Ben bent down to retrieve a stack of papers from under the table.
“As you know, Laura recently finished her first study and wrote a paper about it, soon to be submitted to a scientific journal.” He held up the pages for everyone to see. The title read, ‘How to test psychokinesis hypotheses: A primer on experimental rigor in parapsychology.’
Now it was the Sankt Albertus crowd that cheered the loudest. Laura smiled and played with her cutlery. Ben flipped to the last page entitled acknowledgments, where Laura had listed the names of all Sankt Albertus students, thanking them for their ‘tireless contributions to the data collection.’ Ben had added a beautiful pencil drawing of Sankt Albertushaus underneath the text.
“I suggest we hang it in the entrance hall,” he added, “as a symbol for our community and Laura’s upcoming contribution to the scientific literature.” 
He sat down under thundering applause, and Laura grabbed the copy from his hands, marvelling at the list of signatures and tracing all the O’s that Ben had replaced with miniature coin drawings. Mr. Orkin-Rent took the opportunity to activate the electronic sound system and play old Christmas songs, which caused some of the intoxicated staff members to leave their seats and join in questionable yet spirited attempts at dancing. The Sankt Albertus crowd hung back, handing around Laura’s paper and discussing potential improvements to the title. Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov waved my janitor back to his seat and poured him another glass of eggnog, which I had left undiluted as a sort of holiday exception.
“Happy New Year, Otto,” she said. 
He raised his eyebrows. Just like me, he probably could not remember the last time someone had addressed him by his first name.
“Happy New Year to you, Anna,” he replied, and they clinked glasses. They both looked at the table for a moment. My janitor shifted in his seat and cleared his throat.
“Excellent idea by that girl, right? Combining our Christmas Drinks, I mean.”
“Laura Brenner,” Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov informed him. “And absolutely…we should do it again next year.”
“Done deal,” Mr. Orkin-Rent said, and refilled their glasses. They clinked once more. Amused by their unusual interaction, I decreased the music volume so they would not have to shout at each other.
“Quite a year, wasn’t it?” Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov said, observing Laura pulling Ben to the dance floor.
“One’s crazier than the next,” Mr. Orkin-Rent agreed. He chewed his lips, searching for something else to say, and looking quite adorable in his old suit. Finally, he came up with something and leaned one elbow on the table. “Say, that whole Hartmann Group business must have been a nightmare for you. On the admin side, I mean.”
“Oh, you don’t know the half of it, Otto,” Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov said, visibly elated by his choice of topic. “That new professor is late on all her financial declarations, and…” she looked around and leaned towards the janitor, “…I’m positive that she’s employing people off the books.”
Mr. Orkin-Rent also pulled his chair closer.
“Oh, I’ve had my own problems with that professor,” he said. “She’s not letting any of my workers into the psych lab—changed the locks and everything. I’ve been doing unannounced safety inspections every other week, just to make sure everything’s up to code.”
“Oh, that’s a very good idea, Otto,” the secretary congratulated him and—impossibly—pulled her chair even closer. “And what did you find down there?”
“It’s odd, Anna,” the janitor said, taking a dramatic sip of his eggnog, “lots of medical machinery—all piled up around a bed. And lots of chemicals. Not sure why they need those in the psych building, but it looks like a hospital down there.”
“Oh, that is very suspicious,” Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov said, her cheeks slowly taking on the color of the fruit punch. “I’ve read that woman’s ethics applications, and they’ve all been rejected. Must be a dozen by now. All filled with technical mumbo-jumbo. Something’s not kosher down there.”
“Amen to that,” my janitor agreed. It was the first time he had expressed any interest in the academic research on campus.
I left them to their collegial conspiracies and shifted my attention just in time to see Laura and Ben slip through the door to the stairway. I will spare you the details, Kasimir, but there was some chasing, tickling, and giggling as they ran up the stairs—the same stairs that you and Laura had ascended during her graduation ball. That rooftop had seemingly replaced the riverside gazebo as Laura’s favorite location on campus. Once more, I regretted my negligence in dusting and tidying the attic. I admit that it smelled a bit moldy up there, but it did not seem to subtract from the romantic atmosphere. It was fairly cold as well, but my two runaways—smart as they are—had brought their jackets.
Laura’s laughter ceased when they arrived at the final ladder leading to the crawlspace under the roof. It took me a second to make sense of her hesitation until I followed her eyes to the numerous footsteps in the dust. At first, I assumed that these were the remnants of your roof-climbing activities after the ball, but soon I understood her confusion. There were far too many footsteps to be explained by your two-way trip in October. Ben pointed at an orange glimmer streaming from the crawlspace.
“Look,” he whispered. “I think someone was faster than us.”
Laura did not answer, her face a mask as she grabbed the rungs of the ladder.
“Laura?” Ben hissed. “I don’t think we should go up there.”
But Laura sped up, scaling the ladder to the top, and peering into the triangular space beneath the rafters. Faint moonlight shone through the slanted windows. At the back wall, a single candle illuminated a shapeless pile of sheets, clothes, and books. A shoe stuck out from under the makeshift blankets, as well as some messy brown hair, dangerously close to the candle.
Oh, Kasimir, how terribly cold you must have been up there, spending the cruel Kleinburg winter in my oldest and draftiest attic. How dirty it was and how lonely you must have felt with only vermin to give you company.
Laura’s eyes went wide, but she crouched down and quickly waddled her way over to you. Behind her, Ben lifted his head over the edge and exclaimed in terror as he saw Laura approach the motionless figure.
I can barely bring myself to describe the scene, Kasimir—that is how guilty I felt about my lack of awareness. One of my dearest students, hiding on my grounds like a criminal or a shelterless drug addict. I was pulled out of my desolation by Laura’s assertive exclamation towards Ben.
“He’s breathing. Go downstairs and get help!”
For a moment, Ben hesitated, but then he nodded and raced down the ladder. I looked over Laura’s shoulder into your face and—oh my sanity—how ghastly you looked, Kasimir. Your eyes, usually so clever and endearing, were open and blind like those of a dead rat. Your fine lips were cramped in an animalistic grin, and your whole body seemed as rigid as a wooden board.
Laura held her hand to your blueish neck, checking your pulse, and tried to reanimate you through shouts and shaking, but you remained paralyzed, like a grotesque puppet forgotten decades ago. I could not stand seeing you like this, and so I shifted my attention to the objects scattered around your camp. I recognized various parapsychology books from the library, alongside a few that you must have obtained privately, all of which held down stacks of ethics applications. There were so many discarded papers that you had started using them as a mattress and stuffed them into the stolen Sankt Albertus sheets for insulation. Next to your hand—your fingers spasmed horribly and I looked away—there was a tin canister with the logo of Brenner Beverages. ‘Industrial Caffeine’ it said on the label, and I noticed the white powder sprinkled over your chin and your clothes. I hoped Laura would never realize that her family’s business was to blame for your pitiful state. 
She performed an admirable job with her resuscitation attempts, and after a few sharp jabs to your shoulder, your eyes unlocked from their fixed position and found her face.
“Kasimir, can you hear me?” Laura asked, and her voice betrayed that she was equally upset by your distorted features as I was. Some saliva ran through your gritted teeth and drew a line into the powder on your chin.
That’s when I left. I could not see you like this. I did not want to see you like this.
At some point in the early morning, my dear rabbit Alan found me hiding under my willows and informed me that Laura and Mr. Orkin-Rent had driven you to the hospital.

* * *

You did not return after the Christmas holidays, and I spent the following months as a recluse from campus life, holed up in your attic, curled up in your sheets, and reading the volumes of notes you had left behind, which nobody had bothered to remove. Through Alan, I heard rumours that you had recovered from your caffeine overdose, but this did little to lift my spirits. You were gone, and your accident had proved what I had ignored over the last few semesters: I was no longer fit to run a university. Grooming young talents requires me to be in tune with my students, but clearly, I was oblivious to their thoughts, unfamiliar with their technologies, and even unaware of them squatting under my rooftops. I could only imagine what the other universities were whispering behind my back: The laughing stock of higher education, endlessly sliding in the academic rankings, trumped by a foreign university for the title of prettiest winter campus.
I hope you won’t consider me melodramatic, Kasimir, if I tell you that I almost ripped my essence from this place and let Kleinburg University become a lifeless collection of buildings, filled with directionless people staring at blinking computer screens.
Mr. Orkin-Rent seemed equally shaken by the New Year’s incident as he labored harder in those months than he had in years, filling his days with low-priority activities like replacing the windows of the secretary’s office and removing water stains in the Sankt Albertus restrooms.
When alone, he grumbled to me about ‘needing help,’ but I knew the work distracted him from his, somewhat appropriate, self-chastising. After all, he had been equally ignorant of your pitiful life atop Myers Convocation Hall. When he finally threw out his back in April, I stayed passive—letting the rain rot away the gazebos and the insects burrow into my willow trees. Even at the height of summer, when the Committee for Campus Improvement finally burst through all bureaucratic hurdles and tore down the ancient Sitting Room to make space for a futuristic canteen, I could not bring myself to care.
Holed up in the attic, I imagined how you had breathed warm air onto your fingers while writing and re-writing Professor Hartmann’s ethics application. How alone you must have felt without my presence. Among your sparse belongings, I found countless sugar packets, which could be found next to the coffee machines around campus. I winced at the thought of you using your supervisor’s card to print documents, rather than order warm meals from the staff cafeteria. I remembered how I had punished my foxes for breaking into my trash containers and spreading food scraps over the floor. Maybe it had been you.
I cursed Brenner Beverages for giving you access to pure caffeine and flung their tin can from the roof, watching it explode in a powdery cloud on the stones below. Your written work in the attic had, of course, been excellent and exceedingly inspiring. I found wonderfully insightful theories on the backs of discarded ethics forms. Beautiful, elaborate descriptions of the human afterlife and intricate arguments for the believability of near-death experiences. You had underlined countless sections in the library books, a practice that was forbidden to regular Kleinburg students, but forgivable in the face of the undeniable brilliance of your work.
How I relished the few pages dedicated to your thoughts on psychokinesis and Laura’s coin flipping study. In one paragraph, you speculated that one must consider that ‘seemingly lifeless objects have a will of their own, a super-physical manifestation of personality and motive, and that without an object’s goodwill, any attempt at psychokinetic influence by humans is doomed to fail.’
Naturally, most of your writing was occupied with near-death experiences, but surprisingly, I even found those texts to be personally relevant. You argued that ‘death is merely a transition from humanness to objectness, a metaphysical change that does not imply the destruction of consciousness.’
You can imagine my reaction when I read this. What an immense joy to find that my favorite student was the first to acknowledge my existence—however indirectly. It takes a scholar of extraordinary perceptiveness to realize how his environment evaluates and responds to his actions. Over the spring and summer months, I even tried to extend your theories with my own ideas. Admittedly, I lack expertise in the parapsychological literature, but as a non-human sentient, I have my own perspective on the matter—no pun intended. My crucial realization was that human life is really just a foreform—a sort of practice cocoon—and that, once a human life ended, a person’s consciousness would be released. If a consciousness could become tethered to a physical location, it would suggest that I had been a person once—maybe a great scientist or educator. I might have lectured in these very halls and therefore assigned my postmortem consciousness to Kleinburg University.
The other students were now entirely uninteresting to me. They all seemed subpar, barely managing to obtain their pointless degrees from their narrow-minded teachers and fraudulent professors. Too occupied with your notes, and unwilling to continue my preferential treatment of the Sankt Albertus students, I heard that multiple of them struggled to keep their grades up. Ben, who had grown a little gut since he started his relationship with Laura, even lost his arts scholarship. Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov soon received a letter announcing that Ben’s term as prefix had ended and that his residence in Sankt Albertushaus was up for reevaluation.
Laura was the only one whom I kept a marginal interest in, likely because of her close connection to you. While corresponding with potential outlets for her psychokinesis paper, she had begun a new series of studies testing a parapsychological concept known as karma. I won’t bore you with the details, but her general idea was to test whether acts of generosity would influence subsequent games of luck. The outline of her methods seemed promising, but I would have loved to hear your thoughts about it. Laura, despite her notable intelligence, still sees objects as lifeless things that one can manipulate, flip through the air, and measure in entirely reductive ways.
Nonetheless, the Sankt Albertus students elected her as their new headgirl, and I therefore visited her occasionally—a fortuitous decision on my part because one day in late summer, eight months after your departure, the old doorbell sounded, Laura made her way down the stairs, and there you were.

* * *

I did not recognize you at first. Your beautiful hair was hidden underneath a beanie, and your smile bloomed on a face that was slightly rounder than it had been. However, unlike Ben, whose weight gain had robbed him of his appeal, you radiated health and newfound resilience. Laura’s face mirrored the shock I felt, maybe with an added tinge of ambivalence.
“Hi,” you said, and gave her a bouquet of yellow tulips, well-chosen as a symbol of friendship, by the way. “These are to say thanks for saving my life…and sorry for everything. All long overdue, I know.”
Laura accepted the flowers, still too stunned to speak.
“I’m only visiting for the day,” you said, and my initial euphoria threatened to collapse. “I was hoping we could talk.”
“Sure,” Laura said, looking more alarmed than elated about your return. She led you up the stairs without ever smelling the flowers in her hand.
As the new occupant of the prefix room, Laura had graciously asked Ben to leave some of his paintings on the wall. Even his old easel was still there, showing a half-finished painting of Laura sitting in her gazebo.
“Nice room,” you said, walking over to the window which looked over the lawns of the central yard. “More light than your old room downstairs.”
“Yeah, it’s nice,” Laura said, and collected some books from the floor. The usual procedure for the headgirl would have been to offer you a seat and a beverage, followed by a tour of the house, but Laura had never mastered such social conventions.
“Actually, should we go for a walk?” she asked. “It’s a bit warm in here.”
She was not wrong. Without my usual control of the weather, Kleinburg University had experienced more than its usual share of the summer heat. You smiled.
“Sure, a campus walk. Brings back memories.”
And so the two of you went downstairs again and exited Sankt Albertushaus. I was astonished by the floral spectacle on campus. There were plentiful crocuses, daffodils, and even tulips. My hornbeam hedges had sprouted out of control, and I wondered whether Mr. Orkin-Rent had become overly lenient with the gardeners. Even the birds behaved more exuberantly than usual, filling the air with musical celebrations. I am ashamed to say this, but I felt like an intruder on my own campus. You spotted the empty space where they had torn down the Sitting Room, an ugly construction site metastasizing tractor trails across my unkempt lawns. I bent the trees to occlude as much of the embarrassment as possible.
“Wow, things have changed since I was here.”
Laura merely hummed in agreement, nodding to a passing statistics tutor. You inquired about Laura’s well-being, and she mentioned being ‘on edge’ because of Ben’s evaluation interview taking place that very moment.
“You think they will kick him out?” you asked, studying the squirrels that zipped around my willows with disorienting exuberance.
“It’s unlikely, but not impossible,” Laura said grievously. “Multiple people have been kicked lately. Seems like they are really deciding based on grades now. Most of the new residents are from engineering.”
Although I was alarmed by this development, Ben’s dismissal from Sankt Albertushaus remained the right path forward. His academic failures clearly showed that he was no match for Laura, and removing him from her surroundings would hopefully entail the end of their relationship.
“That’s too bad,” you said, “but how’s your research going? If you kept pace, you must be close to a professorship by now.”
Naturally, you were joking about the timeline of Laura’s PhD, but I assume she felt complimented.
“Work is going fine,” she said. “The editor of Parapsychological Methods will come next week to collect our tapes.”
You stopped in your tracks, facing her.
“So they will accept your paper? You’re a published scientist?”
“Unless I somehow messed up the video annotations,” Laura replied, but smiled for the first time in your interaction. 
As you walked past Myers Convocation Hall, both of you avoided looking towards the roof. Apparently, the birds had lost all shame about building their nests and defecating right there on my tiles.
“So, how was your recovery?” Laura asked. “The doctors said that your parents picked you up from the hospital.”
“Oh, I’m fine,” you said. “But yes, I stayed with them for a while. We talked through my issues with my near-death experiences, our disagreements about science. It definitely did me good. I feel much better now, physically and psychologically.”
“The paramedics said you had a seizure—”
You waved her off.
“Seizure is a bit of a dramatic word. But yeah, I’m a bit sensitive to caffeine. That’s how I had my first near-death experience.”
“Your first? So that seizure in the attic was a…”
You swallowed and squinted.
“Technically, I flatlined for a minute in the hospital, but it was all normal. No strange visions or anything.”
Laura closed her eyes, and her lips quivered as she breathed slowly. As you neared the Van Lommel Building, a passing Sankt Albertus student greeted Laura, which pulled her out of her gloom, although she still avoided looking at you. 
“My father thought you might sue the factory. He was quite upset.”
“Me suing them? If anything, it should be the other way around. I stole their ingredients after all.”
“I guess so,” Laura said, and gave you a quick look. “You also stole some sheets from Sankt Albertushaus.”
“That’s true as well.”
You caught her look, and both of you had to smirk. Laura stopped.
“Can I ask you something, Kasimir?”
You also stopped, a flicker of discomfort in your eyes.
“Sure, ask.”
“What was up with you and Professor Hartmann? In my lecture, you said all kinds of things about ‘meeting’ her when you were younger.”
You chewed the inside of your cheek and looked over to the clock on the bell tower.
“I can barely remember saying that, to be honest. The doctors said that I had a caffeine-induced psychosis while working here. Combined with all the rejections from the ethics committee…it must have gotten to me.”
“I see,” Laura said and pressed her fingers into the seam of her jeans. I could see why she was not convinced by your explanation. Sure, you had been emotional at times, but your reasoning had always seemed perfectly lucid. Additionally, it is out of question that a psychotic person could write such elegant and convincing theories as the ones I found in your attic.
“Yeah,” you said. “Like I said, I’m really sorry about the way I behaved. The psychosis made me do all kinds of strange stuff.” You pointed at the top floor of the Van Lommel Building. “I also have to apologize to Professor Hartmann, I guess. She’s probably down in the lab, right? As always?”
You chuckled, as if having fond memories of your common supervisor. Laura did not join your laughter.
“Hartmann was fired last week,” she said. “Mrs. Atkinson-Debrov, the head secretary, exposed her for financial fraud. It was on the news.”
“Oh wow,” you said and covered your mouth. “That’s unbelievable. I had no idea. My family does not get the Kleinburg newspaper.”
Laura cast her eyes to the ground. Slowly, I began to understand her trepidation about your sudden appearance.
“It was pretty big news,” she said. “Most of the articles mentioned your name as one of Hartmann’s victims.”
You looked towards the Van Lommel Building, probably noticing that the ivy had spiralled out of control. Your cheek muscles worked until you found your smile.
“How strange. So I assume they gave you a new supervisor?”
“They’ve abolished the parapsychology department. Professor Rhein is coming back next week. He agreed to supervise me.”
“Ah, I see. That makes sense.” You touched your forehead. “That reminds me. I still had some personal stuff in the lab. Not sure whether I can still pick it up. Did they already disassemble everything down there?”
Laura swiveled. With her head, she motioned you to follow her back towards Sankt Albertushaus. 
“I put my cameras back yesterday. I didn’t see any personal stuff down there which—”
“Oh, so you can access the lab with your card?” you asked. “Is there a chance I could borrow it for an hour or so? They took mine away in the hospital.”
“You mean they took away Professor Hartmann’s card,” Laura said grimly.
“Yes.” You wiped at your face. “That’s what I meant. Anyway, I could bring your card back in an hour. Thirty minutes, maybe—”
Laura shook her head.
“I’m sorry, Kasimir, but I won’t give you my card. Today, I will spend time with Ben. Tomorrow, we can all go to the lab together.”
“I won’t be here tomorrow,” you grumbled.
Laura seemed to be counting the steps to Sankt Albertushaus, and you ground your teeth. Then you lifted your head, bumped your shoulder into Laura’s, and pointed towards the benested roof of Myers Convocation Hall. 
“Remember how we sat on that roof after your graduation ball?” 
Laura kept her eyes forward.
“I mostly remember how I found your frozen body up there.”
Your smile quivered slightly, but you walked closer to her and put a facetious tone in your voice.
“I wouldn’t say frozen…I had our romantic memories to warm me. If I remember correctly, we almost kissed.”
Laura scoffed and shook her head, but a tiny smile curled her lips.
“I don’t remember that.”
“Oh, I do,” you said. “In fact, we had many romantic moments on campus. Remember how we met at that gazebo by the river? You asked me to the ball. You might have even mentioned that I was pretty.”
“Pretty conceited, maybe,” Laura said, and sped up even more. 
Admittedly, your flirtation came across a bit clumsy. I wondered why you were trying to get on Laura’s good side.
“So, has your attitude towards me has changed?” you asked.
“Yes, it has,” Laura said. “And the fact that I have a boyfriend.”
“I know,” you said. “Although who’s to say what happens in the future, right?”
Laura took a right and hurried up the stairs to Sankt Albertushaus, unlocked the door, and turned to you like a bouncer at a discotheque. You struck a casual pose against one of the entrance pillars.
“So Ben is still at his interview? Should we wait for him in your room? I’d like to say hello as well.”
Laura opened her mouth and shook her head at you.
“What’s wrong with you, Kasimir? Seriously, why are you acting like this?”
You squinted.
“Like what?”
“Like a disgusting asshole who is trying to steal my card,” Laura said. “Did Hartmann put you up to this?”
Your eyes narrowed into tiny slits, and you took a step closer.
“Nobody’s put me up to this,” you hissed.
“Then what’s the plan, Kasimir? Are you trying to steal the machine? Hartmann added like a million parts since you left.”
Behind Laura, there was noise in the entrance hall. Some students had heard their prefix yelling and were coming out of their rooms to pry. You leaned close to her ear.
“Who’s to say what my plan is, Laura?” you whispered. There was gooseflesh on her arms, but she stood her ground in the doorway. You pulled a coin out of your pocket. 
“How about a little bet?” You grinned, and I could see why Laura seemed frightened of you. “Five heads in a row and you give me your card, any tails and you’ll never see me on campus again.”
Naturally, I would never risk losing you. I readied myself above your hand. For a second, Laura stared at the coin. Then she threw the door in your face.

* * *

Of course, I understood that Laura’s access card was a crucial element of your plan—however that looked like—and thus I excused your somewhat crude attempts to obtain it. Seeing you storm off campus, I turned my fury towards Laura. She dared to stand in your way—our way—and I realized that it had not been the first time. 
Clearly, she was sabotaging you out of pure jealousy. Academic jealousy, as she had undoubtedly recognized your superior talent, as well as romantic jealousy, because you would never care for her the way she did. And why would you? Sure, she was a conscientious student, but if all parapsychological research was done by such narrow-minded individuals, it was no wonder that the field was considered a pseudoscience. Conventional workers, like Laura, could never unravel the mystery of human death—that wondrous moment when a human body joins the realm of objects.
Laura’s talent for obtaining good grades was trivial; in your final conversation, she had revealed her true self: a wretched, envious saboteur. My new contempt for her fueled me, and so I hastened to Ben’s committee hearing to deliver an urgent letter. The professors and administrators sat at a raised table, silently passing around my letter, and glaring down at Ben. He started to sweat, trying to decipher their whispers. I did not feel the need to listen to their verdict, and instead turned my attention to the basement of the Van Lommel Building. 
Elated, I found that I was no longer barred from entering the laboratory. Mr. Orkin-Rent had removed the plaque reading Hartmann Research Group GmbH, and when I successfully floated through the door, I finally felt whole again.
I yanked the curtains open and surveyed the room. The white hospital bed had been replaced by a recliner chair reminiscent of those in a dentist’s office. With its cream-colored leather, it resembled an egg laid into a nest of cables. I followed those cables and found that they connected loose sensors, wristbands, and a metallic helmet to bulky, rectangular machines and computers stacked in the dark corners of the laboratory. I assumed that, once human test subjects sat on the chair, the cables and wires would sort of feed into them, like mechanical umbilical cords.
Had I not known that the purpose of this room was to transition humans into objects, I would have been bored by the abundance of technology, but since I was intimately familiar with your work, I felt exhilarated. This was the place where you would triumph and bring glory to Kleinburg University. The place where our worlds would come together, and you would become an object—fully accessible to my presence—however briefly.
I became convinced that, once you found a way into the laboratory, you would be pressed for time, and so it was my task to prepare everything. I tidied the desks and aligned the cables neatly on the floor. I dusted the shelves and turned all the bottles and flasks so their chemical labels were easy to read. Unsure which other tasks I could take off your hands, I moved in circles around the chair until I heard footsteps outside the heavy steel door. I prayed that you had already found a way in, but then Laura entered the room.
My fury was instantly rekindled. I knew she had come to continue her sabotage. As she stepped into the room, I noticed a lamp on a small, ceiling-mounted gadget starting to blink. One of the computer monitors sprang to life and emitted a subtle beeping. Laura walked over to the computer and typed in a code, which caused the beeping to stop. I remembered Professor Hartmann mentioning a safety alarm, and assumed Laura had disabled it. 
She searched the laboratory, opening every wardrobe and checking under every desk, but seemingly failed to find what she was looking for. I hoped she would leave, but instead, she brazenly sat down on the reclining chair, got out a statistics textbook, and began reading. Her devious intentions were obvious. She was guarding the laboratory—obstructing our planned communion. I could have smacked her with that book.
I wrecked my mind on how to get rid of her, when one of my earlier works conveniently seemed to do the trick. There was a knock on the window. Laura winced and dropped her book. Outside, Ben showed his bloated, red-eyed face. Laura walked over.
“Tell me,” she yelled at the glass.
“They kicked me out, Laura,” Ben blubbered, and I could not believe that I had ever favored that boy.
“Shit, really?” Laura asked. “Your grades are still better than Tom’s and Alex’s.”
I made a mental note to investigate whether these students had come from the engineering department. Laura opened the window to better understand her sobbing boyfriend.
“They got a letter—an anonymous letter from one of the residents. It said I force people to drink alcohol and neglect their studies. They had pictures of me at Friday Drinks.” Ben took a wheezing breath. “The committee says I abused my position as headboy. They think that’s why I wasn’t reelected. They want me out of the house by tonight, or I’ll be expelled.”
I celebrated my wisdom to stack the Sankt Albertus committee with people who could be counted on to make reasonable decisions on my behalf.
“But that’s complete bullshit,” Laura said, and, knowing her true character, I was not surprised by her continued swearing. “That letter is obviously fake. Everyone in the house loves you.”
“Apparently not,” Ben croaked and wiped his bloated face. “Could you come and help me pack? I still have some stuff in my room…your room.”
Laura scratched her chin and looked around the laboratory.
“I really wish I could, Ben, but I think I need to stay here.”
“What? Why?”
Ben sounded increasingly like a child, and I wondered whether I should facilitate his complete expulsion from Kleinburg University.
“Kasimir will try to break in here, I think. He might do something stupid.”
Ben stared down through the window like an open-mouthed ox.
“Kasimir? Your old dance partner? When…how…why does it matter what he’s doing? I’m getting kicked out of Sankt Albertus, Laura.”
“I’m very sorry, Ben,” Laura replied, grinding her teeth. “You can keep your stuff in my room for now. They will remove Hartmann’s stuff tomorrow. Then, I can help you.”
Ben continued his wailing for a while, but unfortunately, and characteristically, Laura stuck with her initial decision, and he soon trudged off. Laura sniffed, picked up her book, and sat down on the chair again, but I noticed that she stared blankly and did not turn the page.
The gloom of your last evening settled over the campus, and Laura switched on the bare ceiling lamp. I stared at her viciously, unsure what to do, until the ticking clock on the wall gave me an idea.
I flew over to Mr. Orkin-Rent’s studio and flung his ceramic piggy bank against the wall, where it shattered and sprayed pennies everywhere.
“Jesus,” the janitor exclaimed and spilled hot chocolate over his cowboy novel. I assume he had gotten used to uninterrupted silence during my hibernation.
“Theft? Really?” he exclaimed, watching the coins roll over his floor. He strained to get up and unrolled the campus map, spotting the new stain right away. “Psych basement. Why am I not surprised?”
My loyal janitor put on his coat and limped across campus. He spotted the illuminated basement window and sped up. I’m telling you, if he wants to, Mr. Orkin-Rent can still be quite quick. When he opened the heavy steel door, the astonishment was plain in his face.
“Laura?”
“Hi, Mr. O. What brings you down here?”
Laura was apparently happy to see my janitor. The Sankt Albertus prefix often collaborates with the janitor: scheduling maintenance, et cetera, and thus I assumed that Laura and ‘Mr. O’ had stayed in regular contact after their shared New Year’s Eve party. 
“I was just…checking something,” my janitor said and looked around the room.
Laura shut her book and looked at him intently.
“What were you looking for? Did you receive a letter, or some sort of warning?”
Now it was Mr. Orkin-Rent’s turn to look at her with suspicion. 
“No…well, yes.” His face contorted into a pained, awkward smile. “Tell me, Laura. You’re not…stealing anything down here, are you?”
He gave an awkward chuckle as if Laura was naturally above suspicion—an assumption I would have shared until recently.
“Stealing?” Laura echoed. “Why would you think that?”
“Oh, I don’t know,” Mr. Orkin-Rent said weakly, and looked around the room. “Guess one could get a decent price for some of this stuff.”
“Mr. O,” Laura exclaimed. Then her eyes narrowed. “It was Kasimir who alerted you, wasn’t it? The boy you carried out of the attic on New Year’s. He told you I was stealing stuff. Or maybe he left an anonymous note. Is that why you’re here?”
“No,” Mr. Orkin-Rent said and waved her off. “My sources are…it had nothing to do with that boy.”
“Then what’s going on?”
The janitor stepped from his healthy foot to the other and back. He cleared his throat.
“Well…what’s going on…is that nothing’s going on…I suppose…” 
I increased the volume of the ticking clock, and the eyes of my trained janitor found it instantly.
“... but it’s after eight o’clock so…better pack your things and…”
He gestured vaguely over his shoulder.
“Why?” Laura asked. “You’ve seen me stay late dozens of times. What’s different today?”
Mr. Orkin-Rent furrowed his bushy eyebrows.
“What’s different is that we’re playing by the rules from now on. Your old supervisor committed fraud, and a few months ago, your friend nearly froze to death on my campus. I’m not going to have any more funny business with you people.”
Laura’s mouth stood open, and when the janitor saw the tears in her eyes, he quickly turned to the door.
“I’m sorry, Laura. It’s just for the night, I promise.”
Laura huffed and kept asking irksome questions as she followed Mr. Orkin-Rent up the stairs and out of the building. I made a mental note to put a nice bonus into my janitor’s piggy bank once he had bought a new one. Maybe I would even consider his request for a human assistant. Mr. Orkin-Rent locked the building and turned to find Laura sitting on the front stairs with her arms crossed.
“What are you doing now?” he asked. “The library’s still open. You can read in there.”
“Sankt Albertus residents are allowed to walk all open areas of the campus at night.” Laura cited from my codex with her typical unbecoming defiance.
I expected my janitor to refer her to the concept of loitering as described in earlier versions of the codex, but he only shrugged.
“Up to you, Laura. Sorry about this.”
Shockingly, he went down the stairs as if to let her sit there. I let a bolt of lightning hit the metal rod atop the Van Lommel Building, and both of them ducked under the crashing thunder. Laura’s frightened eyes scanned the cloudless evening sky while Mr. Orkin-Rent cringed and turned back to her.
“Listen, Laura, I’ve worked here for fifty years now. You’re not supposed to be here tonight.” His old eyes were pleading, and I assumed he knew that his bonus was entirely dependent on removing Laura from the building. “I really can’t explain it but…” He coughed and wiped his forehead. “Sometimes one just has to listen to your surroundings, you know. Look for signs and such. Of course, you’re a scientist and all…probably don’t believe these things but…why not play it safe tonight…for my sake?”
“That’s what I’m doing,” Laura said and retrieved her book from the backpack.
Mr. Orkin-Rent flattened his thin hair with both hands, searching for arguments, but came up empty and, astonishingly, turned to leave again. I let the sky grumble above his head. Barely out of Laura’s earshot, my janitor started mumbling.
“You warn me? I am warning you. If you do anything to that girl, you will regret it, my friend. I promise you that you will regret it.”
Furious, I let clouds rush in and lightning crash down all over campus. Mr. Orkin-Rent came to a standstill, gesticulating wildly towards the sky.
“I’m telling you, pal,” he shouted, “if anything happens to that girl, I will quit. I promise you. I will quit tomorrow, and I will burn down your willows on my way out.”
Confused, Laura looked after the shouting man. I was equally shocked. Nobody had ever directed a threat at me—never mind my longest-serving janitor. As soon as I found time, I would have to start the arduous process of finding a suitable replacement.
When Mr. Orkin-Rent went back into his chambers, I commenced an early sundown, letting the heavy storm clouds sink over Laura’s head. Within seconds, I started a tropical downpour like Kleinburg had not experienced in centuries.
Laura fled to the limited shelter of the Van Lommel doorway atop the stairs, bracing against my slashing gusts of wind. Of course, I could have used even more force against her, but Mr. Orkin-Rent’s threats had seemed genuine, and I could not risk the well-being of my riverside willows which—let’s be honest—are the foundation of my aesthetic.
Enraged by Laura’s continued stubbornness, I disabled all the lights and lanterns surrounding the Van Lommel Building and provoked the mice and rats to make a ruckus in the darkness. Laura shrieked, pressed her back against the door, and used her backpack to shield her ankles from the raving animals, but she did not leave. This girl was incorrigible.
Then, I spotted you. 
You sat in the nearest Rhododendron bush, drenched and observing Laura with gritted teeth. I instantly moved to shut off the rain and chase away the vermin, but then I hesitated. You were tougher than Laura and had likely gotten accustomed to rats and challenging weather conditions during your time in the attic. Still, the stalemate had me agonizing about my failure to clear your path. 
Luckily, I can be quite creative in dealing with obstinate students. You had to wait less than fifteen minutes before Ben arrived, shaking and with streaks of coal on his wet T-shirt. You ducked further into the bushes.
“Laura,” Ben cried as he spotted her at the door. “Something terrible has happened. I’m so sorry.”
“What do you want?” Laura screeched back, visibly derailed by my attacks. “Go back to the house. I’m not coming with you.”
“I’m sorry,” Ben said again, and I could see the blisters on his hands. “There was an accident in my… in your room.”
“What accident?” Laura cried, pushing herself against the door, as if Ben were a demon in disguise. “I don’t believe you. Get away from here.”
Blue lights flickered in the distance, and sirens became audible underneath the rumbling of the clouds. Ben arrived at the top of the stairs, sobbing.
“When I picked up the box with your video recordings, it just burst into flames. I swear, I didn’t do anything.”
Laura’s eyes wandered from Ben to the blue lights behind him.
“You’re lying,” she whispered and pushed him back. He shook his head and closed in again.
“I know the journal editor is coming to collect your videos, so I tried to grab some out of the box.”
Ben held up his charred hands. Laura got on her toes to see the orange flames blooming in the top window of Sankt Albertushaus. I made sacrifices for you, Kasimir, and I would do it again.
“I’m so sorry, Laura,” Ben repeated. “Some of the tapes might be okay, but most…”
“Be quiet,” Laura said and walked down the stairs, eyes fixed on Sankt Albertushaus. “You’re part of it. All of this is part of it.”
“What?” Ben hiccuped. “What do you mean?”
I’m sure Laura could see the orange smoke rising through the rain. I wondered absently whether Ben had alerted the other residents about the fire. Laura whirled around and grabbed the front of Ben’s shirt. 
“You stay here, okay? Don’t let anyone into the building. Especially not Kasimir.”
She ran a few steps towards Sankt Albertushaus, and Ben motioned to follow her. 
“Ben,” she screamed, turning around, “I told you to wait.”
He shook his head, once more confused, while Laura disappeared into the night. Then he turned towards the building and slowly walked up the stairs. I was about to reactivate the rats when I saw you sneaking up behind him. 
The sound of the rock hitting Ben’s skull was rather subtle compared to the noise of his face hitting the marble stairs. What little of his attractiveness had been left was certainly erased. I applauded your decisive action and your foresight in dragging his body into the shadow of the bushes.
You used another rock to smash in the basement window, and I drowned out the shattering of the glass with a well-timed roar of thunder. I dulled the shards of the window as you climbed through, and when you switched on the ceiling light, I let the wind shift the curtains to prevent any passersby from looking inside.
The obnoxious room sensor started beeping again. Laura, that rotten child, must have reactivated it when the janitor had forced her out. You threw a glance at the flashing monitor, but apparently did not know the deactivation code. Ignoring the mounting beeps, you spun in circles, inspecting the countless machines and the chair in the middle of the room. You frantically opened all the cupboards, accumulating various bottles and flasks. Your pupils were dilated, leaving barely any space for your piercing blue irises. You pulled a wet, tethered paper out of your pocket and muttered to yourself as you read through it. It seemed to be the ‘Procedure’ section of an old ethics application. You discarded some of the bottles before mixing the rest into a plastic bag in somewhat arbitrary proportions.
A shrill ringing erupted from an alarm bell mounted on the wall, and you looked at it in a panic. You ran over to the computer screen and hammered your hand onto the typing keys, but the alarm kept going. That’s when I—desperate to make your problem go away—ripped the double-bolted bell from the wall and smashed it onto the floor. Silence ensued as you stared at the broken metal casing, but you quickly shook off your surprise and finished your cocktail of chemicals, hanging the bag—the kind they have at hospitals—over a tall stand next to the chair. You pushed the sensors and wristbands onto the floor and sat down, only to jump up again and peruse the computers stacked along the walls. You switched on every machine that had cables leading to the metallic helmet mounted atop the chair, trying a concerning number of machines and button combinations until, finally, a lamp on the helmet came on. You took off your beanie, and I froze with shock as you revealed your shaved head. Your gorgeous hair—gone.
You grabbed a grayish gel from a drawer and smeared it onto your head before sitting down on the chair and lowering the helmet onto your skin. One of the computer screens started showing numbers and fluctuating graphs. You placed a little clamp on your finger, which prompted another display to come to life, beeping and showing the number one hundred seventy-five next to a beating heart symbol—an impressive heart rate, even for a young, athletic person like you.
You picked up the tube leading to the bag of liquids and screwed a needle into the threaded end. The fact that you twisted it in the wrong direction at first was understandable, given your excitement. 
You took a few deep breaths, in through your nose and out of your mouth. Then, with shaking hands, you pierced the needle into the crook of your arm. You cried out, and tears of pain filled your eyes. You pulled the needle out again. A thin band of blood ran over your forearm and onto the leather armrest. You took another few breaths and lifted the needle again.
“Help me,” you whispered. “Take the needle. Put it where it needs to go.”
At first, I was too stunned to follow your instructions. Never had a student conversed with me so directly, so naturally. Reverently, I leaned over the chair, cupping your hand and guiding it until the needle crawled into your throbbing vein.
You gasped and dug your fingers into the armrest. Your eyelids fluttered. The beeping of your heartbeat sped up and then dropped suddenly. Hovering above the chair like a mother bird, I gazed at your face. You opened your lips and I waited, hungry for more words, more acknowledgments of my existence. But your tongue moved silently in your mouth.
A high-pitched tone announced that your heart had stopped and that your transition from humanness to objectness was imminent. The helmet blinked, and most of the computer screens filled with meaningless sequences of numbers.
Afraid to miss the first quiver of your liberated consciousness, I disconnected the heartbeat monitor, switched off the rain outside, and silenced the waves of thunder above Kleinburg. I crawled into your body, finally able to inhabit you. I welcomed you to the world of the superphysical—my world—the world of spirits—the world of institutions. It was exhilarating at first, but as I searched around your body, I found it—empty. It no longer housed your personality. Even animals exhibit a certain personality when I converse with them, but you did not respond at all. I left your body, hovering above you and addressing you again and again. But you stayed silent.
As you know by now, I’ve been waiting for a long time—speaking to you and tirelessly listening for a response. After a while, I even tried reviving your human shell so we could restart the extraction of your consciousness, but your heart never beat again.
At some point, I realized that I needed help. Eager to turn people’s attention away from Sankt Albertushaus, I simply let the structure collapse in on itself, switched on all the lights of the Van Lommel Building, and started ringing the tower bell. Unfortunately, people did not understand. 
Finally, I found Laura, surrounded by her co-residents, crying on the lawn over the smoking remains of her videotapes. Not knowing what else to do, I let the wind whisper your name in her ear. She came out of her harrowed state and looked around. Smart enough not to waste any time, she got up and sprinted back towards the Van Lommel Building. Fixated on the broken basement window, she ran past her boyfriend’s body in the bushes and spotted you in the chair.
I unlocked all the doors for her, but she simply climbed through the window and proceeded to apply all the reanimation techniques that I had already tried. At that point, a lot of time had passed since your last heartbeat, and so her failure was no surprise to me.

***

Now, the paramedics are loading you into the back of the ambulance, and I am realizing that I won’t be able to talk to you much longer. 
It does not matter. I have given up hope that your spirit will ever blossom from your empty body. I wonder what errors you committed down in that laboratory. Was it a technical oversight, or were our theories wrong? Maybe objects and humans can never be the same. Or maybe I overestimated your brilliance.
Given that you won’t be able to finish your research, I suppose I can make a private confession, which should come as no surprise to a genius, young mind: I am the one funding Professor Hartmann’s research. I was the one who lured her onto my campus to investigate human consciousness. I was the one forcing deadlines onto her until her hair fell out, and you overdosed on caffeine. Naturally, I pinched my nose when hiring an engineer, but it proved effective for convincing my suspicious administrators to introduce parapsychology at Kleinburg University. I apologize for misleading you, Kasimir—my involvement had to stay a secret—but I hope you see now that I was never robbed of a laboratory. Sure, losing access was an embarrassing oversight when transferring ownership to Professor Hartmann, but I came to see it as a necessary setback—a self-amputation committed for the sake of science and administrative independence. 
Needless to say that none of my ideas paid off in the end. Your failed research, alongside your death, will deal yet another blow to my academic reputation. Of course, I am once more considering to leave this place behind and settle within a calmer institution like a post office or a train station.
But as the sun rises above the Kleinburg River, and I watch my dear students console each other in front of the smoking ruins of Sankt Albertushaus, I know that I will never leave. What can I say? I love working with ambitious young people. I love to see their eyes light up when they step onto my campus. I love to see them wear shirts with my name and pullovers with my coat of arms. I love to see their proud faces when one of my teachers compliments their essays, or when they hoist their diplomas on graduation day.
I was wrong to invest in a professor who never even suspected me behind the letters and donations. And I am sorry to say that, despite your attractive qualities, you also fell short of expectations. But someday, a truly gifted researcher will step onto my campus and achieve consummation. They will discard their body, their mind, and that pesky thing you call a soul—and enter the world of institutions.










