1

Claudio wiped the menu off the blackboard and wrote ‘Happy Holidays’ in large, festive letters. Most students left campus over the holidays, but the janitor might appreciate the message on his nightly walk-through. 

[Ah, I see the human has a loopy handwriting—a clear sign of schizophrenia, according to psychology. My quickest diagnosis yet!]

Pushing his dessert cart past empty lecture halls, Claudio eyed the three cannoli vibrating on the plate. He had used every lull in the cafeteria to start a new batch, continually replacing the best three pieces. He had given the rest to students, always probing for reviews and suggestions–although thirty years of experience had taught him not to trust students’ feedback for free samples.
Claudio strained his eyes to see through a reflecting window. There was no light in the gardener’s shed–but that didn’t mean anything. She might wait in the dark because she wanted to conserve energy. Gardeners were probably quite Earth-conscious. She had told Claudio to deliver the cannoli to her shed at six o’clock, so she would probably be there. Once more, he aligned the three cannoli on the plate and drummed his hands on the cart’s handle as he approached the exit of the main building. 
Yesterday, in the cafeteria, the gardener had called his lemon cake the ‘best she ever had.’ Claudio had replayed that soundbite over and over in his head. He was aware that this particular comment was usually not factual and that she had probably just made polite conversation. And yet, she had no reason to lie about her favorite dessert being cannoli. And the ones she would receive today were not bad–Claudio was almost sure of it. For a second, he considered whether the gardener had ordered cannoli from his so they could eat them together, but then he quickly dismissed the thought and refocused on the cannoli. He had made three instead of two, so she could offer him to stay and have one.
Claudio used his back to push open the door to the central yard. The winter air rushed through his suit jacket and made him shiver. He considered closing the button, but it would stretch the jacket over his belly. During the winter break, he would have to see his tailor.

[The human also exhibits signs of being overweight—much easier to treat than schizophrenia, while still counting as psychology. Maybe I should focus on that, rather than his schizophrenia.]

Maneuvering the cart over the moonlit marble paths, Claudio’s nerves settled. The rectangular lawns, old pillars, and yellow-lit hedges of the central yard always boosted his confidence. Sometimes tourists ate cake in his cafeteria while comparing pictures of the campus buildings. They often talked about how great it would be to study or work in a place like this, and Claudio’s chest would swell with pride. Every yard crossing made up for his own high school memories–failing exams, disappointing parents, and so on.
Orange light bloomed from his right, and Claudio heard two animated voices. Two students had left the library and were about to intersect his path. Anxiously, Claudio pulled out his pocket square and considered draping it over the cannoli, but then he pushed it back in his pocket. The cloth would have smeared the glazing and ruined the pistachio decorations.
Arriving at the intersection, Claudio nodded at the students with a tense smile. He recognized Thomas, a boy who had worked on his degree for at least six or seven years. In the cafeteria, Claudio always offered free samples to students who–according to his hallway observations–might be struggling with their studies. Thomas must have received a semester’s worth of extra sustenance over the years. The boy’s shirt hung out from his pants, and Claudio avoided looking down, fearing to appear judgmental.
“Hey, Claudio. Nice suit,” the boy said, and stopped in front of the cart. 
“Oh, thank you, Thomas.” Claudio adjusted his sleeve nervously. “It’s the last day before the holidays, so I thought the university staff could maybe put in some effort. Make the day special for the students…” 
“Very festive,” the boy said and nodded towards the girl. “I’m just showing the campus to my future girlfriend.” 
The girl punched the boy’s shoulder but smiled.
“Oh, very nice!” Claudio said and nodded at the girl. Then he threw Thomas a meaningful look to fix his shirt. The girl likely interpreted the boy’s careless clothing as a sign of impoliteness–especially during a romantic walk across the yard. The boy paid no attention to Claudio’s signals.
“Claudio works in the cafeteria. Best apple pie you’ll ever have.” 
Claudio felt his ears get warm and wiped a non-existent dust particle from the top of the cart. 
“Well, our desserts aren’t too bad, I suppose. We do what we can with the money we get from the university.”
The boy’s eyes wandered to the plate. “I didn’t know you had cannoli. Are these leftovers?”
Claudio performed something between a squirm and a shrug. “Well, yes, Thomas. In a way, they are, I suppose, but–”
“That’s awesome,” the boy said and snatched one from the plate before Claudio could say anything. The boy opened his mouth and dangled the cannoli above it, as if attempting to drop it straight into his stomach. Claudio’s hand lifted slightly from the cart’s handle, but his words failed him. It was his job to provide students with food. The boy sank his teeth into the dough, and the filling smeared over his fingers. He groaned, satisfied, and held up his half-eaten bounty.
“This is why I haven’t dropped out, Claudio. If I ever graduate, it will be because of you.”
Despite his unease about the cannoli, Claudio felt a smile coming on. More than once, he had hoped that his efforts in the cafeteria somehow contributed to the students’ academic success. This included leftovers being up for grabs. The boy chewed and hummed approvingly before giving the girl an encouraging nod to take one as well. For a moment, Claudio’s eyes met hers. She held up her hand and smiled.
“I’m pretty full. And a bit lactose intolerant.”
“Oh, these have lactose, unfortunately,” Claudio said. “Only a small amount, but they do have some.” He looked back and forth between them. “But we do make lactose-free desserts, as well.”
The girl laughed, and the boy nodded approvingly.
“Didn’t I tell you? The cafeteria is the best thing about this place. Do you mind if I have one more, Claudio? I’d be happy to pay for it.”
“Well, Thomas. Technically, I made these for someone–” Claudio’s eyes twitched to the gardener’s shed at the end of the yard. “It’s a special order, of sorts.” 
“At this time?” 
Looking confused, the boy followed Claudio’s eyes to the shed. Then he examined Claudio’s suit once more, and a grin spread on his face. 
“Well, I’m sure the gardener will love your cannolo, Claudio.” 
The boy laughed and, after a second, Claudio and the girl joined in. The students continued on their way, and Claudio turned his cart around to walk alongside them. The boy furrowed his eyebrows.
“Aren’t you going the other way?”
“No, yes, of course. But first, I will find some lactose-free snacks for your friend.”
The girl stopped.
“No, please. You have a date…a delivery…to go to. And we’ve just had dinner.”
“Well,” Thomas said, “There’s always room for–”
The girl slapped him on the arm and raised her eyebrows.
“Yeah,” the boy said. “We’re good on dessert, Claudio. Thanks.”
Claudio waved them off.
“Takes two minutes to get some ice cream from the freezer.” He laughed and added, “Can’t have hungry students on campus.”
“No, mister,” the girl said and pulled the boy to a standstill. “Please, go to the gardener.”

[A strange interaction, even for humans. My new diagnosis is that Claudio is a people-pleaser, which can be pathological (i.e., psychological + bad). Maybe this is his problem, rather than the schizophrenia or the obesity.]

After an awkward exchange of goodbyes and happy holidays, Claudio continued on his solitary path. He cringed. Rarely did students reject his food. He distracted himself by the observation that these two had also considered this late-night delivery a potential date.
Yesterday, he had noticed a ring on the gardener’s finger. As far as Claudio knew, some divorced people kept their rings on for a while. Also, he could never tell for sure whether a ring was a wedding ring.
The shed’s outline became clearer in front of the trees. There was movement behind one of the curtains–although it might have been Claudio’s reflection growing in the window. 
The marble path ended in the middle of the lawn, like a white springboard over a dark lake of grass. Claudio took a deep breath and arranged the remaining cannoli in the middle of the plate. He parked the cart against the rusty bike stands of the last brick building— the Trident Building, privately named by Claudio after the mossy ‘Ψ’ symbol on its front door.
A rattle erupted on his right, and he almost fumbled the plate. Ivy-covered steps led down to a rotten door, the Trident Building’s basement entry. He had almost forgotten the overgrown stairs, but he was sure that the noise had come from down there. 
Holding his breath, Claudio waited a few seconds before deciding it must have been his nerves. Now that he thought about it, the decrepit Trident Building was a great conversation starter. The ivy on the walls was beautifully maintained, but the basement steps seemed utterly neglected. The janitor had mumbled something about ‘laboratories under external management.' 
Another scraping sound came up the stairs, as if someone yanked at the door from the inside. Forceful repetitions started to loosen the dust and soil in the cracks, which crumbled onto the jungle of ivy and weeds covering the stairs. Finally, the door swung open, and a small woman looked up at Claudio, panting through a surgical mask. Gray locks sprawled out from under a green cap, the kind worn by doctors.

[I see Professor Hartmann has disguised herself for our mission—a classic sign of intelligence. Cognitively speaking, Professor Hartmann would perform well on an intelligence test, at least compared to other humans in her age group.]

“You–” the woman croaked and pointed at Claudio. “We need help down here. Come quick.” She waved him down the stairs. 
Claudio stared at her. With her gray hair and her bent posture, she appeared older than him, but the mask shielded her face.
“Come on,” she shouted. “It’s an emergency, I’m telling you.”
Confused, Claudio nodded and started moving. On the first step, he turned, wondering whether to leave the plate on the cart. He decided against it. Any passing student or squirrel could deliver the fatal blow to his cannoli date.
Carefully balancing his cargo, he descended the stairs, avoiding the slippery leaves and hidden ivy ranks. Behind the woman, harsh neon tubes illuminated a cement corridor lined with heavy steel doors. Claudio had expected sterile laboratories, but the basement of the Trident Building rather resembled a bomb shelter. The woman let him pass and then nudged him forward, pulling the door shut behind them. A moldy scent rose from a puddle at Claudio’s feet. Above him hummed neon lights filled with mummified insects. The basement appeared utterly abandoned.
“What kind of emergency are you having down here?” Claudio asked, hearing his voice echo back and forth between the narrow walls.
Again, the woman pushed into his shoulder and motioned for him to keep moving down the corridor. 
“Just go,” she said. “Go. Fast. There’s no time.”
At the end of the corridor, another masked woman popped her head out of a door and stared at them. She had shiny black hair—very similar to the gardener's—and held up a video recorder. Claudio made an awkward attempt at jogging. He felt foolish for still carrying the cannoli and tried to make up for it by hurrying along.
“I work at the cafeteria…,” he said, instantly out of breath, “...no medical knowledge…only…high school…”

[Poor cardiovascular fitness! This decides it…the subject’s treatment will focus on the weight loss, rather than his schizophrenia and obsessive people-pleasing.]

The old woman followed him closely. Their shoes slapped the ground in an asynchronous rhythm, and the sound became layered and turbulent between the walls. Claudio assumed that a science experiment had run terribly out of control, and his mind filled with horrible images of injured students. The woman with the black hair stepped fully into the corridor and pointed her camera in their direction.
“Better do it there, Professor Hartmann!” she shouted anxiously. 
Claudio recognized the voice of the gardener. He stopped, confused. The clapping steps behind Claudio stopped, and he looked over his shoulder. The professor, whose name Claudio had never heard before, fumbled for something in her back pocket. She didn’t manage, and Claudio could see a clunky object sliding down the inside of the fabric. It clattered onto the floor, and Claudio's insides clenched. The professor groaned as she bent over to pick it up.
“What–” Claudio squeaked and pointed at the gun. “Why do you have that?” He used the same angry voice that he used for students smoking behind the cafeteria. 
“There are kids here. This is a university campus. You can’t bring a weapon—” 
In his peripherals, Claudio saw the gardener dodge back into the lab, outside the line of fire, but still holding her camera into the corridor. He swiveled on the spot, still balancing the plate with the cannoli. The elderly woman lifted the gun and trained it on his torso. It had a long shaft. 
“You really shouldn’t–” Claudio started, “this is really not–.” Then, he awkwardly tried to use his left hand to get the wallet from his jacket pocket. He switched the plate into his other hand. “I don’t have much.” He stared at the woman, trying to convince her, and himself, that she was robbing him. “But you can have it.”
The wallet tumbled out of his fingers, and he lurched forward to grab it. His knuckles punched into it, and it landed at the woman’s feet.
“There,” he said, pointing weakly, “you can take it.”
Her eyes bulged madly under the flickering neon lights as she took aim. Her breath came in bursts through the mask. Claudio held her gaze for a second while her gun rose higher from his chest to his throat. He dropped his eyes, avoiding the barrel. 
There on the ground was his wallet, flapped open. No pictures inside. The gardener had smiled at him when ordering the cannoli.
The plop of a silenced shot. 
Claudio’s plate shattered on the floor.
2

Maya let the window glass soothe her bruised forehead as she stared out into the darkness. Her parents’ car remained motionless in the driveway, crouched down on the gravel like a metallic rabbit. She could see her father’s hands on the wheel while her mother’s hands were flying left and right. Maya assumed they were arguing about letting her join after all. Just leave.
She switched on her desk lamp so that they would see her outline in the window. She turned her side to the window and threw a couple of jabs at the punching bag that her mother hated. Go on and leave. I have better things to do. 
Finally, her parents seemed to reach a decision, and the engine sprang to life. Maya switched the lamp off again, sat on the windowsill, and watched the car crawl over the gravel. 
Grounded for ‘starting a fight’…
Maya exhaled forcefully, remembering her principal’s voice coming through the phone and blaring through the kitchen. If that boy wanted to keep his nose intact, maybe he shouldn’t make jokes about Chrissy. Plus, Maya hadn’t even won the fight.
She scratched some dried blood off her hoodie and pondered whether her parents had secretly welcomed the reason to ground her. That way, they could enjoy the gallery’s new exhibition by themselves. The car lights turned onto the street and disappeared. 
Maya scoffed, jumped off the windowsill, and grabbed her headphones–big enough to drown out a nuclear explosion. She flicked through her playlists. Her plan for the night called for Turkish rap. Most of Maya’s recent activities called for Turkish rap. The lyrics were a complete mystery to her, but the artist’s tone was on point: anger and hatred. She swiped the volume up to nineteen—one shy of instant deafness—and stood for a moment, letting her eardrums adjust to the noise. She nodded her head to the beat.  Let’s get weird then.
She swaggered across the room, yelled “Tyson”, and swung her fist at the boxing gloves hanging from her door. They spun on the hook, detached, and bowled her laptop off the desk. Not caring to inspect the damage, she left the room.
In a way, Maya found it disgusting that her parents were willing to forfeit her ticket. The exhibiting artist was one of her mother’s friends, and Maya knew that everyone would judge the size of the crowd on opening night. Passing the photos in the corridor, she kept her eyes on the carpet. Chrissy had never been grounded. And never will be. 
Maya dialed the music up to twenty, banishing the thought from her mind. On her way down the stairs, she kept knocking her fist into the handrail. The corridor, with all the happy pictures, always managed to get her down. She wondered whether her parents told her to ‘leave her room more often’ so she’d have to walk by the pictures of Chrissy.
The kitchen wasn’t much better than the corridor–primarily because of the fridge. Her dad had decorated it with dozens of pictures of Maya and Chrissy playing with Koko and the other orangutans. If your daughter dies in your zoo, you’re supposed to sell the place and burn the pictures.
The fridge door flew open and smashed into the wall. Maya had placed her knock-off energy drinks in front of her parents’ expensive cheeses. Two cans, ready to go. Her mother had looked queasily when she had shoved them in there, but she hadn’t said anything. Energy drinks were perfectly legal, and Maya knew she wouldn’t risk another fight. Maya grabbed a huge beer jug–one of her parents’ stupid vacation souvenirs–and poured both cans into it. The yellow liquid fizzed promisingly, and the smell was sweet, chemical, and, above all, strong. Maya had read that the effect of some drugs can be intensified with energy drinks, and tonight, she would go all the way. 
She wiped her hands on her baggy jeans and left the kitchen. Back in the corridor, she had an idea and swung by the living room. Behind the bar stood various liquor bottles proudly arranged in a glass cabinet, freely accessible. Her parents had given her and Chrissy a speech about paternal trust… Bullshit. They just wanted people to see their expensive booze, which they never even drank. The trust policy had worked for a while, but in the last weeks, some bottles had mysteriously adopted the hue and smell of tea. Without bothering to read the label, Maya screwed open a bottle of dark-red liquid and took a whiff. Definitely not tea. 
She poured the alcohol into her jug, watching the different colors swirl and mingle. Like pissing yourself in the tub while slitting your wrists. 
Maya heaved the jug to her lips and counted down five big gulps. She made a face, but rated the drink a solid five out of ten. Next stop: attic. 
For every step up the stairs, Maya forced herself to take another sip. Her tongue was burning once she reached the top, but, surprisingly, her stomach cooperated this time. Time for the main event.
She pushed the soundproof door open, discarding her mom’s rule that she wasn’t allowed in the studio anymore. The ceiling light clicked on automatically, revealing a semi-circle of easels with orange paintings: houses, fruit, pets. Maya remembered her mom’s latest painting workshop for a bunch of middle-aged ladies, and thought that this traffic-cone-colored collection of pointlessness was probably their work. She felt something claw at her jeans and looked down.
“You feel like partying, Uma?” Maya asked, toasting her jug towards the ginger cat. 
Uma jumped onto one of the stools and hissed. Maya considered chasing her out of the studio, but the crammed attic was the cat’s territory, and historically, it was near-impossible to catch her here. The only person who could pet Uma was Maya’s mom, who basically lived up here since the zoo incident. 
Maya’s eyes strayed from the puffed-up cat to the rest of the room. Rows of her mom’s paintings were leaning against the walls, hidden under a tarp. The only pieces still hanging on the walls were Chrissy’s paintings from school. Many of them had bright colors and loopy shapes: childish replications of their mother’s style. Maya knew that, hidden under the tarp, were her mom’s newest paintings on which the colors had turned gray and her playful brush strokes had become uncertain whispers on the canvas. Maya herself had stopped painting altogether. She had removed all of her paintings from the studio walls and stashed them under the bottom bunk in her room.
Maya killed the strong ceiling light and replaced it with the glow of her mother’s reading lamp. Chrissy’s paintings retreated into the shadows. More shadows, more vibes. 
She took another big swig from the jug and mouthed along with the unintelligible screaming through her headphones. 
‘Zany o-deri jem—ratatatatat.’ 
From her position on the stool, Uma clawed at Maya’s sleeve. 
“Stop it, you jerk.” 
Maya picked up a towel and a trash bag from her mom’s utensil shelf, ignoring the long scar of green paint, slashed and dribbled over the drawers–evidence from her only painting session after Chrissy’s accident—the one that got her banned from the studio. 
Maya placed her jug next to a collection of dusty cans and containers stacked against the attic’s back wall. She had checked the pile yesterday, and the labels included all the ingredients mentioned in the forums: ‘Toluene’, ‘Solvent’, and most importantly, ‘Danger.' Open buffet, thanks mom.
Some cans had foreign writing on them, and most looked quite old and banged up–a gang of rusty veterans waiting to be splattered onto a canvas. A moment of hesitation came over Maya. It’s kind of messed up to use my mom’s paint. 
She cursed herself for the hesitation, took one more sip, and tried in vain to increase the volume on her headphones. Come on. 
The instructions had varied from forum to forum, but one post had been so detailed that the author must have been an expert. Maya yanked at the latch of the first can and pried it open with a wooden brush. The fluorescent liquid sloshed from side to side, and Maya smelled it carefully. Yup, definitely toxins in there. 
She grabbed the towel, dunked it into the paint, and transferred it to the trash bag. She noticed that one of the roof windows was slightly open. Resolutely, she drew it shut. Uma meowed disapprovingly.
Her favorite song came on—a beat that somehow tried to combine dubstep and death metal. The album had gotten horrible reviews, but in Maya’s opinion, it was a revelation. The next few cans she simply poured into the trash bag, always holding it shut in between to not let any vapors escape. She purposefully mixed paint with paint remover, assuming that it had to be a banger mix. Walking back and forth, she accidentally kicked over two cans and watched the gooey cocktail paint abstract, psychedelic shapes onto the studio floor. She realized that she was extra screwed now, but nothing mattered anymore. Her parents’ opinion of their remaining daughter had already bottomed out.
Maya sat down cross-legged, forced down the rest of her energy schnaps, and put her head in the trash bag. She inflated her lungs to maximum capacity and was instantly rocked by a coughing fit. Her eyes teared up from the strain of her convulsions, and she had to laugh. Through the tears, she could see Uma’s tail whip back and forth behind the reading lamp.
The air in the room quickly started to taste the same as the air in the trash bag. With renewed determination, Maya hovered over the bag and managed to suppress any coughs by inhaling in short, controlled breaths. Her head was spinning, and she wasn’t sure if it was the excitement, the coughing, or the chemicals. A giant, cat-shaped shadow walked across the wall, and Maya assumed that this would become problematic once the hallucinations set in.
The testosterone-drenched music spurred her on to a marathon-breathing session before she finally turned her face away from the bag for some fresh air. She vomited a gush of liquid onto the floor. With a detached sense of surprise, Maya registered that she hadn’t even felt nauseous. The air in the attic was so thick that she wondered whether Uma was getting high as well. She smiled and leaned backwards, but her arm kept holding onto the bag instead of catching her, and she hit her head on the floorboards. The contents of the bag spilled over her hoodie. 
Maya was not sure whether the reading lamp flickered or whether her brain was short-circuiting. She caught a glance at her legs and noticed that her muscles were fully flexed and her toes pointed like those of a ballerina. She rolled her head into a more comfortable position and felt something wet in her hair. Maybe just paint. The ceiling grew dark and splotchy, and chunky streams of vomit ran down both sides of her face. For a moment, her chest felt frozen, and everything was trapped and tight. Static buzzed in her ears.
Then, a light descended from the ceiling. Her mom’s unoriginal students would have definitely described the image as a tunnel. Maya saw it as an avalanche of owl feathers dropping from the sky–beautiful and light and bright. So bright, they erased everything.
3

A sticky heat enveloped Claudio, entrapping him in damp cloth and smothering his disjointed dreams. He kicked the blanket from his legs, assuming that the air-conditioning had malfunctioned again. He would like to host more dinner events in summer, but without a functioning AC, it would be torture for the guests. He made a mental note to contact the landlord again when suddenly realizing it was wintertime.
Rubbing crystallized sweat from his eyes, he squinted towards the corner of the room. Only there was no corner. The room was round. Instead of his broken AC by the window, there was a wall of bamboo stalks. A mosquito net gridded his view, forming a little tent over his bed. He furrowed his brows. 
A memory shot through his brain, and Claudio clasped his throat. Something had stung him there in his sleep, but the skin felt normal, no pain. He was lying on a camp bed. The ceiling was made from straw. Claudio sat up and noticed that he was wearing the suit that he had laid out for tonight’s cannoli delivery to the gardener.
Closing his eyes, he tried to remember what had happened before he had gone to sleep. He had researched cannoli recipes, in his own bed. His heart pumped in random bursts, and he forced a five-second exhale through his nose.

[Aah, self-soothing behavior, I see. This is unrelated to obesity and more typical of anxiety and panic attacks. The subject is more difficult to diagnose than I thought.]

“Aah, self-soothing behavior, I see!” 
Claudio threw himself to the left, away from the voice next to his ear. He rolled from the bed and crashed onto the floor, ripping the mosquito net down with him.
“Claudio! Stop the agitated behavior,” the voice exclaimed gleefully, and Claudio risked a look over the bed. A young man, a teenager, stood there and grinned at him. Everything about him shone bright white. Not just his albinistic skin, but his hair, his teeth, and his lab coat. His pupils were pale gray and seemed reluctant to stand out from their white surroundings. 
“Welcome to Reanimation Island!” the boy shouted and spun theatrically on his heels. His lab coat flapped, and Claudio could see a name tag on the chest: ‘Finn’, next to a hand-drawn smiley face.
“I’m…sorry,” Claudio stammered, “It seems…I’m sorry, where are we?”
 Finn clapped and pointed at Claudio, his bloodless lips stretching his smile even wider. “Disorganized speech!” He clapped again. “A clear sign of human agitation!” 
Claudio could feel a subtle stinging and noticed a wooden splinter in his thumb. A few drops of blood had run over his palm. Finn saw it as well, and the excitement chopped his speech into a staccato. 
“Involuntary! Self-inflicted! Injury! Now it must be agitation! One second…”
The boy shook out his face and then peered intently at Claudio. His white forehead seemed to bronze and melt into waves. His eyebrows thickened and darkened, and his previously gray eyes became brown, and terribly familiar. Claudio’s heart set out as he recognized his own features protruding from the boy’s face.
With a shriek, Claudio crawled back, trying to escape from the creature. The boy tapped his pale index fingers to his newly tanned temples and smiled knowingly.
“Yup, there it is,” Claudio’s voice sounded from the boy’s mouth. “Agitation. Just like I said.” In a blink, the grotesque mask snapped back to its youthful form, and the brown eyes dimmed back to gray. The boy laughed. “I had to check because I remembered that you also scored quite high on neuroticism, and that might look like agitation. No wait–” 
Like a magician, Finn produced a clipboard from behind his back and flipped through it. 
“Ah, no,” the boy corrected himself and pointed at the paper, “dispositional nervousness it says. Not neuroticism. Look–” He turned the clipboard in Claudio’s direction, “your disorganized speech and self-inflicted injury could have been because of dispositional nervousness, instead of agitation.”
Finn went on one knee and held up the paper to Claudio as if presenting conclusive evidence in a court of law. Claudio only whimpered and slid further back until he felt the bamboo wall behind him. 

[The subject does not seem to understand. Good psychologists always explain their diagnosis.]

“Dispositional nervousness is similar to agitation,” the boy continued and got back up. “I think I read somewhere that they are even related, so I had to go into your nervous system and check what you were feeling.” 
The boy let the papers flop back onto the clipboard and looked down at Claudio. “And it was temporal agitation, just like I said in the beginning.” 
There was a pause, and Claudio wondered what kind of response this creature expected from him. The ensuing silence seemed to convince Finn that his monologue needed extension, and he started walking back and forth in a semi-circle around Claudio, waving his hand importantly.
“Okay, so, temporal agitation means that the current situation causes your behavior.” He gave Claudio a probing look as if to check whether his words had been understood. “So the reason for your screaming and falling is the situation you are in. Not your dispositional nervousness, which is part of your cross-situational personality.”
 To stop his heart from bouncing and palpitating, Claudio averted his eyes from the shapeshifting boy. He touched his mouth, tasting the blood from his wounded thumb. His brain failed to find anything to reply to the boy. Red blobs occluded his vision.
“Did you know,” Finn continued, “that some humans say agitation when they mean the behavior itself, and others call agitation the internal emotion which causes the behavior?” 
There was a pause as Finn again appeared to wait for Claudio’s input. The boy continued, “I think the second version is the right one, although I am technically not a human psychologist.” Finn waited another moment and then gave Claudio a reassuring wave. “I can just look it up later.”
Finally, Claudio’s words returned to him. “I’m sorry but…where am I, and who, if I can ask, are you? Of course, I assume that you’re a normal person, but the trick with the face–”
Finn nodded. “Ah, yes, I forgot the most important thing, again. It always causes confusion in humans. You are dead.”
Claudio stared at him.
“Nearly-dead, to be precise.” Finn smiled happily. “Cardiac arrest, to be precise.” Finn punctuated each word with his finger. “Non. Shockable. Cardiac. Arrest. To be precise.” He mustered Claudio’s confused face. “That’s when your heart stops beating on Earth.”
Darkness crept in from the sides of Claudio’s field of vision. He staggered to his feet and stumbled towards the door behind Finn, slurring his speech. “I’m sorry… outside…just…some air.” 
Finn stepped out of his way with a concerned look, mumbling something like ‘prolonged agitation.'
Claudio had trouble seeing the handle on the door and simply let his body fall against it. The door swung open, and Claudio dropped to his knees. Sand-covered boards squeaked  under his weight. Salty air brushed over his face and brought the sound of waves. Claudio’s hand found a wooden railing that separated the porch from a beach. He rested his forehead against it and gazed at the scene. 
Veils of sand danced like ghosts over black stone plates. On his right, the stones became densely connected before disappearing into a wall of fog. To his left, the sun winked at him through clear air, and the stone plates withdrew underneath the yellow sand.
Finn’s voice came from behind him. “It is nice, no? I put the wake-up cabin onto the neutral part of the beach. Did you know that a neutral environment can soothe people when they start their near-death experience? It is a new psychological theory that I am developing.”
Claudio controlled his breathing as the water gently washed over the polished stones, feeding into a mosaic of shining black puddles. A few seagulls balanced in the wind. He closed his eyes, noticing the smell of tang, and found a memory of making sushi, early in the morning before the cafeteria opened. His heartbeat began to settle.

[The subject’s heart rate is slowing—a symptom of serenity and relaxation, but it could also be a neurological disorder. Or snake poisoning. Or hypothermia. I should check his nervous system again.]

Claudio felt the boy’s breath on the back of his neck. He turned his head and into his own eyes.

* * *
Cool water pooled between Claudio’s toes as his feet sank into the sand. His heartbeat had settled slightly, and he had taken off his dress shoes once the black stone plates had withdrawn underneath the sand. So far, Finn had kept his promise to only speak when asked—a request that had embarrassed Claudio when making it, but Finn seemed to think it was a fun game. 
 Trees and bushes shielded the beach from the rest of the land. The further they went from the cabin, the more of the fog had dissipated. The grayish hue now yielded to surges of vitality: swaying trees, crashing waves, and the chattering of birds. Keeping his eyes away from the supernatural boy, Claudio thought that a family could spend a nice day here—building sandcastles and splashing in the water. Everything looked nice and quite normal, although walking through the sand was quite effortful. Claudio took off his suit jacket and flung it over his shoulder.

[He is sweating quite a lot. Either nervousness or a panic disorder. There are also papers about night sweats, which would be more relevant if it were nighttime.]

A few algae washed ashore in front of him, and Claudio picked them up, verifying that they looked and smelled real before dropping the tangle back into the water. The salt water stung his injured finger as he wiped his forehead.
“Are you aware that it is daytime?” the boy asked, breaking his silence.
Claudio grimaced.
“Yes?”
The boy raised his eyebrows meaningfully as if Claudio was breaking a social rule about acceptable daytime behavior. Claudio slowed his pace and took a few soothing breaths.
“So I was thinking…Finn…maybe we could play a game where you nod when the answer is yes and you shake your head when it’s no?”
Finn nodded enthusiastically.
“Okay.” Claudio cleared his throat. “You mentioned that this place is called Reanimation Island.” The shapeshifting boy looked at him expectantly, and Claudio realized it hadn’t been a question. “Right?” 
Finn nodded. 
Claudio took a few steps in silence to let his breathing catch up. The wet sand felt warm under his feet.
“And you say that I’m…dead. Right?”
Finn shook his head.
“Dying, I mean.”
Nod. Claudio forced a swallow, trying to control his erratic heartbeat.
“Why am I dying? What happened?”
Claudio realized it hadn’t been a yes-or-no question, but the boy readily released himself from their game.
“Well,” Finn said, scratching his neck and averting his eyes, “the last thing that you remember is going to sleep. And a lot of people die in their sleep…so that should make sense from your perspective.” The boy stared at his feet and kicked up sand as they marched along.
“Hmm,” Claudio said. “So maybe I had a heart attack?” 
Doctors had warned him that he needed to improve his diet and start exercising.
“Your heart definitely stopped beating, yes,” Finn said and nodded. “Non-shockable cardiac arrest, just like I already said before. But we should really talk about something else because I am not a doctor. Not yet, at least.” He pointed at the four-lettered name tag on his lab coat. “No doctor title.”
“No, because you’re…an angel?”
Finn pursed his lips and wiggled his head.
“Well,” Claudio said, “It’s just that your…magic trick with the face swap…I am still trying to understand– ”
“There is no magic here, okay?” the boy protested. “Temporary brain scans and virtual head transplants are perfectly acceptable parts of science, not magic.” The boy waved his clipboard in the air. “Does this look like a magic wand to you?” 
Claudio saw angry tears well in Finn’s empty eyes, and wondered what he had said to upset him. The boy sniffed.
“Just because I used magic to create Reanimation Island, it does not mean that I use magic to reanimate my residents. I use normal psychology, that is it.”
Claudio touched his hair and cleared his throat.
“I’m really sorry, mister…Finn. I think I misspoke but I…just need another minute to think…I think.”

[The subject has trouble understanding things. Maybe he could awaken by improving his intelligence. More intelligence counts as personal development.]

Claudio looked back towards the cloudy side of the beach. He desperately needed to find another adult, a normal human adult. He kept trailing after Finn. By now, the tropical scenery around them had fully transformed into three brilliant stripes: green plants on the left, yellow sand in the middle, and blue water on the right. Finn started skipping, which forced Claudio to increase his pace.
“So this island,” he wheezed, “Is there another…person…I could talk to? Not to say that you’re not a person, but—”
Finn nodded. 
“Yes, all other residents are humans, but everyone should focus on their own development while they are here. Although psychologically speaking, relationships are key.”
Claudio willed his lungs to support talking and walking simultaneously.
“And after I do my…development…I will…wake up in my bed?”
Finn shook his head, and Claudio reluctantly motioned him to explain again. The boy kicked some sand into the water as if growing tired of the conversation.
“Most residents stay here for a very short time, and then they die. They have a regular-death experience, rather than a near-death experience. So, probably you will stay dead.”
Claudio’s heart bounced painfully out of rhythm again, and he stopped walking.
“To be honest, Finn, that makes me feel a little bit nervous. Could you explain again why most people die here?”
Finn increased his walking tempo even further, to a point where Claudio almost had to run.
“Most people do not change,” the boy said, “Psychologically, that is. They are stuck in their development, and without life-changing insights, it would of course be meaningless for them to keep on living. For them, a regular-death experience makes much more sense than a near-death experience.”
Staggering through the sand, Claudio struggled to think straight.  He panted, trying to remember what he knew about near-death experiences. He had heard of people who had become religious or changed jobs after having a near brush with death. Only recently, he had read about a famous entrepreneur who, following a close call in the emergency room, had dedicated all his wealth to saving endangered animals.
Tasting metal, Claudio wondered whether Finn expected an equally radical life change from him. Until now, he had never considered himself ‘stuck’ or ‘unfulfilled’ in his career, although he was unlikely to impress anyone with his income. Or his chances for promotion. In fact, he had had the exact same job in the cafeteria for his entire career. But, as far as he could tell, he still loved it. Finn spurred Claudio on to walk even faster.
“Your situation is quite easy to understand, Claudio. There are two ways to leave Reanimation Island: you either elapse or you awaken, to be precise.” The boy skipped ahead, plucked a little shell from the sand, and tried to skip it over the water. An incoming wave buried it instantly. “And like I said, most people elapse quickly because their body on Earth dies. They disappear from my island.” He made a popping motion with his hands. “I named it elapsing because, technically speaking, the resident ran out of time. It will probably happen to you soon. Although you are a special case, of course, and Professor Hartmann will likely intervene before there are too many dead cells in your brain.”
Claudio took out his pocket square and wiped the sweat out of his eyes. His thumb left bloody stains on the cloth, and his heart seemed to fight his lungs for the limited space in his chest. The feeble hope that Finn was leading him to a blissful paradise beyond the palm trees dwindled. 
“Who…Professor…Hartmann?”
“Oh,” Finn said, “I am not supposed to mention her, scientifically speaking. You should really focus on walking more quickly. You want to avoid elapsing, right?” 
Finn cocked his head and studied the gasping Claudio. Once more, the boy’s face transformed, starting with a darkening and spreading of eyebrows and pupils. When he opened his mouth, a dissonant mix of Finn’s and Claudio’s voices erupted: “Worry! Worry, or possibly rumination! Not sure which of the two.” 

[People who ruminate often worry, and vice versa.]

Claudio averted his eyes and tried to control his breathing. Finn warped back into the white-haired teenager.
“Don’t worry too much about dying, Claudio! Although I have to say that, so far, psychology is not working very well. My reanimation rate is lower than ever, to be precise. Less than one percent, to be precise.”
“Less…than one…survive?”
Claudio glanced at the boy, hoping his question hadn’t insulted him. The boy pursed his lips and continued his speech.
“I offer many different types of psychological transformation, to be precise. Residents might need to forgive someone for something, or they might need to overcome depression, or you might have to find their hidden talent. It is an endless list. Not literally endless, of course, but all personal transformations are related to psychology, which is why I use psychology to design the challenges for my residents.” Finn threw Claudio a conspiratorial look. “Do you already feel like a better person?”
Too out of breath to talk, Claudio grunted meaninglessly. He gave up on wiping his face and let the sweat drop from his chin into the sand. His wet shirt collar felt strangely loose around his neck. Finn twirled happily, both hands in his lab coat.
“Personally, I think I could be a great psychologist. Definitely better than Sigmund Freud. Did you know that Sigmund Freud was wrong about a whole bunch of things? Although he did invent subconsciousness, of course.”
Claudio said nothing. He assumed Finn’s statements were a patchwork of things that the boy had heard or read with unquestioning excitement. Ahead of them, a dark cliff reached high into the sky, like a ragged curtain drawn across the beach. At the foot of the cliff was a rectangular structure—a building. Claudio sighed with relief. Maybe there were people there. What were the odds that this boy was just playing a prank on him? Finn still eyed him curiously.
“So are you feeling improved yet?” The boy raised his eyebrows and scanned up and down Claudio’s body.
Claudio noticed that his pants had started slipping, and he stopped walking to tighten his belt. He had to skip over two holes. 
“I’m sorry…Finn…but…is something happening…with my body?”
“Yes, there is,” Finn shouted, as if Claudio had just won a trivia contest. “You just did exercise, to be precise. Now, you have less cholesterol, less body fat, bigger muscles, and hopefully all the psychological changes that come with that.”

[If exercise really counts as personal improvement, the subject should awaken any second.]

Claudio inspected his body.
“How much lighter did you make me?”
“You made yourself sixteen percent lighter, to be precise. By walking across the beach, to be precise. It is important that you feel responsible for your life change, psychologically speaking. So, in terms of awakening, I suggest feeling proud.”
Claudio came to a stop, blinking away the sweat. He didn’t feel proud, rather violated in fact, having his body modified without his agreement. And the boy’s claim that all this weight had been lost by walking for thirty minutes…it felt a bit condescending. On the other hand, the boy’s empty eyes beamed at him, full of hope that this little trick would send him back to Earth.
“Sure, I feel…better,” Claudio said, and started walking again. “It’s a bit…easier to move around.”
“Hmm,” Finn said. “The literature says you should feel ‘empowered’, not ’better’. Do you at least feel ‘ready to commit to your new lifestyle?’”
The building was getting closer. Red bricks, two stories, and Gothic windows. It reminded Claudio of something.
“I’m sorry, Finn, but…is this…the cafeteria at Kleinburg University?” he asked. “My cafeteria?”
Instead of the sliding glass door, the front door was dark red and made from wood, and the ivy hadn’t covered the walls yet, but Claudio walked into this very building every day. This was his cafeteria, or at least a close copy. Finn shook his head.
“This is my Dormitory—short for dormant human conservatory. All residents stay in the Dormitory during their near-death experience.”
Claudio pinched himself, somewhat unnecessarily, because his entire body already hurt.

[Of course, the physical exercise did not work…I forgot the most important part: social validation.]

Finn tapped him on the shoulder. 
“Claudio, I forgot to introduce you to someone. She is nice, friendly, and helpful, and she will provide you with social validation for your weight loss.”
Finn pointed at the dormitory’s opening entrance door, and a tall woman appeared in the frame. She smiled at them and strode down the stairs to the beach. With her height and fluid movements, she looked like an ex-basketball pro, still fit but transitioning to a coaching role. Her broad back would also fit a swimmer. Or a wrestler. Claudio noticed that her tracksuit was slightly too short at her ankles, but it was charming, in a way, and much better than his drenched suit.
“Hello there, Mr. Businessman,” she said, shaking Claudio’s hand and patting Finn on the shoulder. “Finally, someone dressed up for the afterlife, eh?”
“Helena, this is our newest resident,” Finn said. “He needs social validation.”
“He does?” Helena asked. “Looks to me like he needs a Band-Aid, more than anything.”
She gestured at the dried blood on Claudio’s thumb.
“Oh, I’m fine, actually,” Claudio said. “Just a little splinter. Minor accident.”

[Humans deemphasize pain to impress each other. It appears that the subject has an interest in impressing Helena.]

Claudio was unsure whether he should offer his hand.
Finn lowered his voice, as if he didn’t want the men in the chairs to hear.
“Anyway, Helena. This is the special resident that I mentioned—oh, one second,” Finn lifted his hand and looked back across the beach. “Another resident just arrived. I will welcome them, and you two get a Band-Aid from Helena’s room. Nursing situations are opportunities for exchanging personal information and building romantic attraction, according to the literature.”
4
Maya screamed, threw off the blanket, ripped the mosquito net aside, and jumped out of the bed. Her knees wobbled, but she caught herself and looked around. Where in the world… 
Heat pressed down on her, the wooden walls swayed, and she had to hold onto the bedpost. Her sweater had large, multi-colored stains and smelled like vomit. Smears of paint had congealed on her jeans. A burp escaped her jittering stomach, and sourness flooded her mouth.
Blurry memories of paint and booze tried to arrange themselves in a logical order. Slivers of light came through the cracks in the wooden wall. Maya considered that she might have broken into a neighbor’s shed and fallen asleep. Pressing one eye shut, she took aim at the door. 
Stumbling forward from the bedpost, she managed to anchor herself on the doorframe. Outside, she could hear seagulls squawking. Seagulls in winter? Hot wind blew in from under the door. Whatever was on the other side, Maya had an intuition that she wasn’t ready for it.
Opening the door, Maya found her intuition had been correct. She took two steps across the porch and puked into the sand. Her heartbeat knocked against her temples, and she sank to her knees, wiping her mouth. A beach?
Clutching her hands around the armrest of a wooden bench, she tried to focus. She had drunk some booze and inhaled a bunch of glues and paints. So the state of her brain and stomach made sense, but these hallucinations seemed way too real. A breeze carried over fog from the water, cooling her face. The waves washed over the sand and sloshed around smooth formations of black stone–like the volcanic knuckles of a colossus, burned and buried an eternity ago.
“Maya!”
She hiccuped in surprise and looked up. A white creature came running towards her, jumping over the sand between the stones. A boy in a medical coat. Maya groaned and got to her feet. 
“I am so sorry for being late,” the boy shouted, “but a very important resident just arrived and I had to accompany him on his fitness challenge.” The boy panted as he jogged towards the cabin. “I could have been faster, of course…if I allowed myself to use magic. Using human legs to get to places…well it is a lot of work, to be precise.”
Maya reeled back into the shed, pulling the door shut behind her. This lunatic was too much for her. Readying herself behind the door, she listened for the boy’s steps on the porch. The handle was pressed down, and the door opened. Maya lunged forward, grabbed the boy’s collar, and flung him into the room. With a high-pitched yell, he rolled against a bedpost. Maya stepped outside and slammed the door shut. Wow, the fighting lessons paid off.
From inside, the boy cried: “Aggression! Dispositional aggression! I saw it in your report!” Maya yanked the wooden bench across the porch and tilted it against the door handle.
“Please stop the aggressive behavior,” the boy shouted, his footsteps nearing the door again. The legs of the bench caught a floorboard, and Maya heard the boy’s body slam against the door. There was silence. 
“What is the current cause of your aggression?” the boy shouted. “Open the door so I can look at your nervous system!”
Maya stepped backwards onto the beach and spat bile into the sand. Giant leaves and dense shrubbery blocked the view behind the shed, weaving in the wind and changing from dark green to purple to white. Maya groaned and closed her eyes. Ignoring the boy’s pleas, she tried to remember how she had gotten here. Maybe this weirdo has kidnapped me.
“I did not kidnap you, in case that is the reason for your aggression!” the boy yelled, rattling the door. “Everybody thinks that I kidnapped them, so I make myself look like a young person. It is less threatening to humans.”
The legs of the bench creaked as the boy pushed against the door. Maya decided that she had to get away from this place and sober up. She surveyed the deserted beach. To the left, the fog seemed to clear up, and the sand gleamed brightly like one of her mom’s old paintings. A few seagulls waddled over from that side and observed her curiously. 
“Maya! I could get out of here in a second if I used magic! In less than a second, to be precise.”
To Maya’s right, the treeline faded into a gray twilight, blending the overhung sky with the ashen sea. The scattered stone plates tightened into a cold, lifeless surface that disappeared into the looming fog. Maya liked this direction better. It seemed calmer and less bright. Hangover-friendly. The left side looked happy and fake.
“Are you still there, Maya?” the boy shouted from inside the cabin. “Go to the left side of the beach, Maya! Do not go to the right!”
Resolutely, Maya turned to the right and started walking, her damp socks slipping on the smooth rocks. Again, she tried to spit out the bitter taste, but her tongue was as dry as the sand. She would kill for a glass of water or at least some chewing gum.
Soon, the shouting of the boy faded behind her. Trying to make out the horizon in the gray distance, Maya wondered why he had tried to lure her to the left. He’s a hallucination. He doesn’t want anything.
The waves flopped weakly onto the stone next to her, and the breeze settled. In the cabin, the heat had grilled her, but now a chill nestled in under her slimy hoodie. She reminded herself that she could always turn back, but a dark niche in her mind insisted she was going the right way. I wonder if I’m walking around mom’s studio right now.
After another ten minutes, the fog had closed in from all sides, blotting out the world around her. The waves whispered disgusting things to her, like her classmates had this morning. Maya realized that her parents might already be back from the gallery. Her mother would have gone up to the studio to feed Uma. She pictured her mother seeing the giant puddles of paint and stepping over her body to smell the contents of the jug. 
The sea was barely visible in the haze. The sloshing of the waves died away, leaving too much space in Maya’s head that begged to be filled with thoughts. Her parents were probably quite embarrassed at the moment, Maya thought. One daughter dead, the other overdosed. Maybe they would call the police again. The local detective was their best friend after all. ‘Just answer his questions, Maya. He only wants to help.' 
Maya hadn’t forgotten how her dad had basically helped them interrogate her, relentlessly asking how Chrissy had gotten the keys to the cage. She also remembered her mother’s silence during the ambulance ride, never asking how Maya was doing.
The stone below her socks had lost its irregularities and felt like a flat marble floor. She looked up, realizing that both shore- and treeline had dropped from view. Her ears told of a strong wind, but her skin felt nothing. No movement of the air. Not even temperature. The middle of the universe.
In her peripherals, Maya spotted faint shadows moving alongside her, rushing over the rock, and overlapping as they steered towards a single point in front of her. She thought of turning around, but she couldn’t. She didn’t want to. The gray figures seemed to speed up, and Maya followed. Her ears were ringing like whenever she fell asleep with her headphones.
Suddenly, she found herself facing the water. The ocean lay motionless—a vast leaden surface pressed against the black shore—two frozen surfaces colliding in a straight line. The shadows rushed past her like waves of fog and flung themselves from the stone, disappearing below the water without a splash. Maya heard their continuous sighs of relief as they went under. 
She tried to dip her sock into the water, but felt nothing as her toes touched the surface. No drops. No waves rippling out. She realized that it was just an image of water supposed to help her take the final step. She knew that an endless abyss waited underneath the surface. Eternal oblivion. The ultimate blackout. Maya was scared, but she felt ready. She straightened her shoulders, apologized to Chrissy, thought of her parents, and took another step. Then, she felt something—someone—holding onto her hoodie and pulling her back. Maya turned around and looked into the sad, gentle eyes of an orangutan.


5
Kneading his fingers, Claudio followed Helena up the stairs to the dormitory. At the door, he slipped into his jacket, wiped the sand off his feet, and put on his socks and shoes. It was noticeably easier to reach his feet after Finn’s strange weight loss procedure. 
The inside of the building looked very different than his cafeteria. One long corridor with a panoramic window wall towards the forest. An avalanche of jungle vegetation pressed against the dusty glass, throwing green shadows onto the numbered doors. 
He remembered that he still hadn’t introduced himself properly, but before he could offer his hand, Helena laid one arm around his shoulder and maneuvered him down the corridor.
“Room twenty-five,” she said casually, like a PE teacher escorting an injured student to the school nurse. He hoped that she didn’t notice how wet his shirt was underneath his jacket. 
“So…” he started, just to say something, “the boy in the lab coat, Finn, he mentioned some things that were—“
“Loony-gazoony?” Helena laughed. “Yup, that’s old Finno for you.”
“So it isn’t true?” Claudio asked hopefully. “What he said about this place being…the afterlife…and that we’re having some sort of…near-death experience—”
“True as tren, unfortunately,” Helena said. “Welcome to the house of the dying; glad to meet you; sorry to have you.” She knocked playfully on door seven but kept walking. “So, how’d you get here, mate? Private jet crashed? Fire at the bank?”
Her dangling hand patted his pocket square, and she chuckled. Claudio was surprised by the nonchalant way she inquired about his death. Even more problematically, she appeared to be one of those people expecting a funny retort.
“Well, how about yourself?” he tried, gesturing at her tracksuit. “Maybe you…had a bad fall while running…or maybe a traffic accident…” He bit his lip. It was simply wrong to joke about another person’s death, even if it was just a near-death. If everything he’d learned was true, this woman was in real trouble down on Earth—no need to remind her. A moment of silence ensued, and the linoleum squeaked under Claudio’s soles, betraying how many steps he took to keep up with Helena.

[A failed attempt at humor…additional evidence that the subject is attracted to Helena. Lonely, middle-aged humans sometimes use humor to find romantic partners. Maybe I should base my entire treatment on the subject’s romantic shortcomings.]

Helena laughed graciously. 
“Actually, Finn gave me this thing.” She pulled her sleeves straight and the tracksuit tightened over her round shoulders. “I was hoping to put in a workout before the dinner challenge.” 
“Oh,” Claudio said. “They are offering dinner here?”
Helena laughed.
“Today they do, and I’m one of the chefs. Competition-style cooking, and I gotta tell you: I’m a bit nervie, mate.” She turned around. Behind them, an elderly woman had opened door number seven and looked at them. Helena made a military-style helicopter gesture with her index finger and then pointed in the direction they were going. The woman nodded and went back into her room. Again, Helena patted Claudio’s chest. “We’ll take care of your little fingie, and then I’ll bring you to the dinner comp.”
Claudio noticed a line of powder on Helena’s pants–unmistakable for any serious baker. 
“Say,” he started and pointed at her tracksuit, “could it be possible that you baked something for your dish? I’m just asking because–”
“Hey, Ms Olympia, wait up!” 
The aggressive shout had come through a crack in door seventeen. Helena stopped, pushed the door open, and leaned casually against the frame. She indeed looked like a bodybuilder, but Claudio wondered whether she had okayed the nickname Ms Olympia. He got on his toes to look over her shoulder. 
 “What’s up, Mel?” Helena said. “Dinner comp in the common room. You coming?” 
A red-faced sixty-year-old sat on his bed, apparently attempting a meditative lotus position. He wore a red sports jersey. Claudio could rarely tell which sport a shirt represented, but the big ones were usually football or ice hockey. The contours of the man’s stomach suggested he might not play much himself. The man groaned as he released his feet and bent forward to grab his shoes.
“Of course I’ll join, mate. That’s why I shouted,” Mel said with a smirk. “Especially given tonight’s fine selection of chefs.” 
He winked at Helena, who laughed briefly–a similar laugh as when Claudio had attempted to joke about her sportswear.
“Who leaked the competitors, Mel?” she asked. “Wouldn’t be our lab-coated blabbermouth, would it?”
The man smiled, shrugged, and made a zipping motion across his mouth. Claudio thought Mel was at least thirty years older than Helena, twenty years older than himself. Mel pushed himself off the bed and smoothed his jersey. His bare feet kicked over a beer bottle, which rolled under the bed. Helena chuckled and let Mel pass through the door. So far, Claudio’s presence hadn’t been acknowledged in any way. Claudio wondered whether Mel was ignoring him because of his ludicrous appearance, sweaty and wearing a newly oversized suit. The corridor was too narrow for everyone to walk side by side, and Claudio fell back. 
“Finn is such a clown,” Mel said. “No way you’ll wake up just because you cooked something.”
“Yeah,” Helena said. “Our boy’s going off the rails a bit with his experiments. But he’s nailing it with this whole college dorm design. Brings back memories, eh?”
She punched Mel in the shoulder, and he scoffed. 
“That boy wouldn’t have survived five minutes in my frat.”
Claudio hummed in agreement. Despite working at a university, he didn’t have much experience with college dorms.

[Non-verbal signs of shyness. Maybe that is the subject’s problem, rather than being lonely. Of course, it could also be both (i.e., a comorbidity).]

“Alrighty, boys,” Helena said. “Let’s take a quick stop in here and bandage up our newcomer, yeah?” 
She walked through an open door. The narrow room had a two-tiered bunk bed, although the bottom bed was overladen with dumbbells, straps, and lots of other equipment. Rays of the afternoon sun fell through a skylight onto a weight-lifting bench which occupied the middle of the room. Cables, barbells, and foam rollers were crammed into the corners. A light scent of chalk hung in the air, and Claudio spotted big jars labeled ‘Weight Gainer’ and ‘100% Whey Protein’ under the bed. Helena rummaged through her nightstand while Mel brazenly inspected the sweat stains on Claudio’s pants.
“Wow,” Claudio said to Helena’s back, trying to hide his discomfort. “Did Finn give you all this equipment?”
“Sure did, mate. I agreed to be his in-house medic, and in exchange, he decked me out.” She pulled a transparent spray bottle from the drawer and waved it triumphantly. “Two semesters of sports physiology basically make me an ER surgeon, don’t you think? Hold up your hand a sec.”
She leaned over Claudio’s finger and sprayed the disinfectant onto his thumb. Claudio winced, and Mel sneered.
“Bit cold?”
Claudio felt heat on his ears, but Helena quickly helped him out.
“Pure alcohol, actually. Burns like a bushfire. Sorry mate. Should’ve warned you.”
The fifty percent symbol on the bottle made Claudio doubt that it was pure alcohol, but he was thankful for Helena’s remark. Standing so close to her, he picked up an additional scent, something he used in his cafeteria every now and then–mint? 
While Mel tried to lift increasingly heavy dumbbells from the floor, Helena wrapped a Band-Aid around Claudio’s thumb.
“We didn’t wash it properly, but…” She gave him a clap on the shoulder. “…according to my expert assessment, good chance you’ll live, mate.”
“Well…” Claudio said, thinking of Finn’s depressing statistics about surviving near-death experiences.
Helena laughed. “You’re right–medium chance you’ll live. On that note, I also wave my recommendation to change Band-Aids every now and then.”
Mel scoffed, but Claudio kept his eyes on Helena.
“Well, thank you very much for taking the time to do this.” He held up his hand. “I’d think most people around here don’t thake the time to help others. You’re very kind.”
“Ah, too easy,” Helena said. “And like I said, I got this sweet setup for it.” She motioned towards the unmoving dumbbell between Mel’s feet. Claudio nodded. 
“Still, I wonder if Finn couldn’t help you with the first aid procedures. Seems like he could use his magi…” Claudio didn’t want to sound ridiculous in front of Mel, “...special skills.”
“Well,” Helena said, “Finn’s kind of anti-magic nowadays. Apparently, it didn’t get him as many awakenings as he would’ve liked back in the day. Now it’s psychology or nothing. Although he’s quite loosey-goosey about what counts as psychology.” 
“Okay, great stuff, everyone,” Mel said impatiently. “Boo-boos have been mended and hearts have been warmed. Now, let’s go eat. I’m guessing chicken breast and steamed broccoli?” 
Helena gave a half-hearted chuckle and waved them to the door. 
“You’ll find out soon enough.”
Claudio stopped short and gathered his courage.
“I think I know what you made.”
Both Helena and Mel turned back to look at him.
“I think you baked something,” Claudio continued, hoping to god that his intuition was right. Helena raised her eyebrows, which he took as a good sign.
“There is flour on your clothes.” Claudio pointed at her track pants. “That line on your pants…it happens when you lean against the table where you rolled the dough. I guess Finn didn’t give you an apron.” 
Mel scoffed, but Helena’s eyebrows lifted even higher, and so Claudio continued, speaking faster.
“I do not think it’s a cake because one doesn’t usually need to roll any dough to make a cake. It could be cookies, but those aren’t very common for desserts, especially in cooking competitions, although they should be, so my guess is: you made a pie.” 
Claudio wiped the sweat from his temple, wanting to be correct more than anything in the world. When Helena smiled, he decided to go all in.
“And I think it’s a chocolate-mint pie, because I can still smell the mint.”
Finally, Helena laughed, louder than any of the times in the corridor. 
“Holy smokes, mate. You’re like a culinary Sherlock Holmes.”
Claudio’s smile surpassed hers. 
“Well, I bake a lot, so that is why I notice these things. My actual name is Claudio by the way.”
He stretched out his hand, and this time, Helena shook it with a big smile. 
“Well, nice to meet you, Claudio.”
Claudio tried to suppress the excitement in his voice.
“So, how did you decide on making a pie? It’s a great choice, but not the easiest. Balancing the mint can be quite tricky, at least in my experience. Is it your favorite dessert? Do you bake a lot?”
Helena laughed. “Oh well–”
“Bullshit,” Mel said coldly.
Helena and Claudio turned to him.
“This whole pie story…utter bullshit,” Mel said and pointed at the line on Helena’s pants. “You’ve got that powder on your clothes every day. It’s not flour.” He picked up a bag from the weight-lifting bench and wiggled it before their eyes. “It’s chalk. My guess is that you lifted that barbell with your crotch or something.”
Claudio looked at Helena, but she kept her face towards Mel.
“As for the mint thing,” Mel said and grabbed a plastic bottle from Helena’s nightstand. “Three-in-one sports shampoo.” He lobbed the plastic bottle at Claudio, who struggled to catch it. “Ms Olympia is just being nice to you, Sherlock.”
Claudio’s heart stuttered as he read the label of the shampoo: Refreshing mint. He cleared his throat repeatedly, but there was nothing he could say. Mel’s explanation made sense. But so did his. Helena scratched the back of her head.
“Listen, boys. Regardless of what dish I made, Claudio’s theory is still…”
“…complete bullshit,” Mel completed her sentence and took a step closer to Claudio. “Because Finn didn’t assign the dessert to Helena.” He grinned, and Claudio could see pieces of chocolate between his teeth. “Want another guess, Sherlock?”
6
Never letting go of her hand, the shaggy, autumn-colored orangutan pulled Maya away from the rocky beach and into the forest. Below the dense treetops, she staggered along sandy trails, admiring the swirling palette of kindergarten colors around them. Green moss and brown mushrooms carpeted the forest floor, and blue lianas swayed above their heads. Yellow parrots crisscrossed in between the mossy branches and commented loudly on the funny pair below. I’m still high.
The familiar ape smell mixed with foreign plants, and slowly, the coastal chill lifted from Maya’s body. Trotting behind the ape in her wet socks, she noticed a right-angled kink in one of its pale ears.
“Koko?”
Undisturbed, the orangutan kept on marching. Koko only ever listened to Maya’s dad. The two sometimes walked through the zoo hand-in-hand, handing out maps and posing for visitors. Koko had been the first animal born in the zoo, and Maya’s dad referred to him as his ‘only son.' Only child, soon enough.
A sweet smell filled the air…some flowers or fruits that they also had at the zoo. The sound of drums came from nearby, and Maya felt pleasantly woozy. She let go of Koko’s hand, jogged a few paces ahead, and bent an umbrella-sized leaf out of the way. Koko screeched at her, standing on his hind legs, but Maya ignored him.
A group of old people in hospital gowns sat around a pond, drumming and chanting. Maya felt a giggle coming on and, surprised by her reaction, slapped a hand on her mouth. This place had to be some tropical rehab clinic, she thought. Maybe this is real after all.
Her parents would have definitely welcomed the chance to lock her away in some loony institute. They had probably discovered that their liquor cabinet was a tea shelf and promptly offloaded her to some rehab clinic abroad. No more ‘choose your own therapist.'
Closely observing the drum circle, Maya wondered whether there were movie stars detoxing in this place. Maybe some former athletes, too. Although the handful of people sitting by the pond looked quite old for druggies trying to change their lives. If she could make a list of her favorite old celebrities, it would be Mike Tyson, Jackie Chan, Gerhard Richter, who was still painting at almost a hundred years...Why am I thinking about that right now?
Maya turned away from the strange group, wiped her sweaty hands on her jeans, and turned another way, ignoring Koko’s protests and attempts at grabbing her hand. I need to come up with a normal thing to think about. Finding water and a phone. Those are normal things to do. 
She started running along the path, panting, laughing, and purposefully kicking mushroom heads off their stems to hit the surrounding trees. Would I normally do this? 
Maya decided that kicking mushrooms was something she would normally do, and thus her behavior was not concerning for now. But then again, this new policing of her own thoughts was suspicious. Usually, she just did stuff without questioning her own intentions. She decided to do whatever felt natural for the next two minutes and then review afterwards whether she had behaved normally. Koko followed her on all fours, occasionally snorting and visibly disapproving of Maya’s silly behavior. Give it a rest, dad.
Maya still considered that her surroundings were paint-induced hallucinations and that she was still in her mother’s studio. In fact, the big leaf hanging across the path was suspiciously rectangular, like one of her mom’s canvases. When she touched it, the leaf felt hard and cold, not like a leaf at all. Maya frowned and struck her knuckles against the leaf. It clanged, like a wrench banging against a heater, and its green color was activated, becoming vibrant and spreading to the surrounding leaves. Maya considered that she might have just knocked over another paint can in the attic. Her vision became sharp, as if someone had dialed up contrast and clarity, and she ran away from the spreading colors, fearing that the visual intensity would just grow and grow, never reaching a limit, until her brain would zap out. 
The parrots chirped and hit their beaks onto other leaves, weaving the metallic sounds into the rhythm of the distant drum circle, like a musical competition between humans and nature. Maya liked the anarchy of the forest orchestra and slowed her pace to listen. The lianas around her bobbed joyfully, and the ripples on the sandy trail spelled out the melodies. The treetops stood still, but the tree trunks swayed, as if the trees were attached in the sky and the wind was blowing down by the roots. It was all wrong, and Maya had to laugh. Koko didn’t seem to enjoy the show at all, anxiously ducking and peering around.
Ahead, a tall bush jiggled wildly to the beats, and Maya tried to imitate its movements—letting her knees buckle left and right, while holding her hands over her head. The forest cheered her on with all the plants and animals responding to her movements. She remembered that she had planned to review her actions after two minutes, and realized that neither her thoughts nor her behavior had been normal. Shit.
From behind the bush, a loud, dry crack interrupted the music. Maya stopped dancing. That crack…so terribly familiar. Koko shrieked, ran off the path, swung himself up by a liana, and disappeared in the treetops.
Nighttime rolled through the forest and drenched Maya’s world in predatory darkness. All forest life stalled, and the pale shadows of the trees lay frozen on the sandy floor, listening alongside Maya. The moon slipped behind a cloud, avoiding the imminent scenes–the scenes that had chewed away Maya’s sanity for weeks. Not here. Not while I’m high, please.
A deep grunt. Branches splintering in the darkness. A whimper caught in Maya’s throat, and she tried to block out the nightmare. But her legs had already started running—running through the open door of the cage, running through the bushes, running down the familiar path. 
“Chrissy,” Maya whispered as she slipped through the shadows. “Chrissy, wait.”
As always, she remembered the two exits of the cage. Had Chrissy followed the path to the other side, or had she turned back? 
Maya’s eyes flicked from tree to tree, trying to glimpse a sneaker or a shirt in the black bushes. 
“Chrissy, come here. Please.” 
The massive paws stood still, invisible in the night. The monster silently lifted its head—listerning—smelling—using its superior senses to locate Maya’s little sister. Any second, it would start crushing through the underwood, straight towards Chrissy. 
From far away, Maya could hear the whistles of the zoo staff. Her innards clenched at the memory. The noise of the security guards would rile up the beast. At some point, the security guards would start shooting from outside the cage, but much too late. 
The monster huffed in the dark, a sound filled with resolve and dejection–a gruesome signature to trade its own life for Chrissy’s death. A misty cloud of breath rose from behind the leaves, as if the beast ejected its soul before its final slaughter. Then, it picked up Chrissy’s scent, and branches broke under its galloping chase.
Without thinking, Maya jumped into the bushes, grasping at the area where she had just heard the animal. But there were only leaves between her fingers, no fur. It’s too fast. It’s too fast. It’s too fast.
Maya staggered blindly forward, deeper into the woods. Leaves slashed across her face as she fought her way through the thickets. She slipped on mossy sticks, stumbled over tree trunks, and crashed into the fungi floor, making even more noise than the security guards around the cage. Their flashlights caught her for a few steps, and lost her again. Maya kept shouting for her sister and for the monster. Neither of them heard her because, back when it had really happened, Maya had only shouted once. Or just whispered.
“Hey,” she screamed at the top of her lungs. “Come back here! Chrissy! Bruiser!” 
An insect fluttered over Maya’s cheek, and she spun in place, searching the woods for the right direction. She stumbled onto another sandy trail and recognized the moment. Sinking to her knees, she covered her ears. The growl came from far away, and her sister’s scream followed. That short cry that now lived in every sound of Maya’s life—every vehicle brake, every playground game, every rusty door. Around Maya, the trees picked up their dance again, moving in mocking circles around her. 
She closed her eyes, waiting for her father’s hand on her shoulder. His hysterical eyes and the sweat on his face. His yelled questions, which Maya had no answers for. The movements of his hands and his mouth, already full of accusations. Soon, they would sit at opposite ends of a table at the police station, and people would ask over and over how she had lost sight of Chrissy. Why she had left her alone in the main office. Whether Maya had given her the key to the bear cage.
“I just went to the bathroom,” Maya whispered, digging her hands into the sand. “She promised not to touch anything.”
 Maya leaned forward and dug her fingers into the sand. Her fingers found the stem of a flower–the rose that she had to throw onto Chrissy’s casket. She remembered her mother’s sunglasses in the congregation–the darkest, hardest material on Earth.
Meow.
Maya squinted. Usually, this was the part where the security guards carried her out of the cage amidst her father’s screams.
Meow.
Maya turned her head in the direction of the sound. An orange flurry shot up at her face, and tiny claws raked across her cheek.
“Ah!” Maya cried and fell onto her back, holding her face.
With the pain, the sun shot back up into the sky, and the forest came alive. The cat growled and sank her teeth into Maya’s calf.
“Ouch, Uma, stop!”
Maya jumped to her feet and staggered back from the vicious cat. 
“What are you doing?”
Uma leaped at Maya’s leg, growling furiously and tearing at her jeans. Maya screamed, shook off the cat, and ran deeper into the forest.
7
“Well, because everything has to be randomized, of course.” 
Finn’s exasperated expression reminded Claudio of his high school teachers. “Look, Claudio. If something is not randomized, it is not scientific, and my scientific protocols state that every challenge on Reanimation Island must be scientific. So, everything has to be randomized. Especially the seats during the dinner competition, of course. And that means you have to roll the dice now, because it randomly determines where you can sit. It is basic science.”
Claudio threw a look over to table number one, where Helena had just sat down. She chatted happily with four elderly people, all wearing hospital gowns. In her colorful tracksuit, she looked like a tall autumn tree surrounded by ghosts. Reluctantly, Claudio threw the dice and watched them clatter into Finn’s shoebox. The boy bent over and examined the result. 
“Table nine!” he announced to the other residents in the common room. 
Nobody paid attention. Some of the apathetic guests mustered Claudio’s sweaty, ill-fitting suit as he squeezed through the chairs. Helena’s unpleasant companion, Mel, waited for him at table nine, drumming his cutlery onto the table like an impatient kindergartner. 
Claudio took his time and looked around. The common room was clean, yet somewhat loveless in its design. Small ceiling lights had been implanted into Styrofoam tiles. The orange plastic on the chairs and tables gave some color, but had likely been chosen for wipeability. In Claudio’s opinion, a purely functional cafeteria meant prioritizing staff needs over creating a welcoming ambiance for the guests. Any type of decoration or colorful curtains would have helped this place a lot. In his own cafeteria, the tablecloths matched the color of the door and the lampshades, and he had put a lot of thought into the art on the walls. Some students actually preferred studying in Claudio’s cafeteria over the library. In one corner, he had even hung up a sign saying ‘Study Corner’ and contacted the university administration about acquiring a leather sofa and a bookshelf. They hadn’t responded yet.

[Why is the subject looking around the room? Looking around the room is a symptom of ADHD (short for Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder). Maybe my psychological treatment should focus on that, instead of the weight, or the pathological altruism, or the low intelligence, or the romantic shortcomings, or the shyness.]

Claudio let his eyes wander to the kitchen at the other end of the sitting area. Steel surfaces, no clutter, and much cleaner appliances than he had expected for a student dormitory, but then again, there were no students here. The kitchen wasn’t exactly cozy either, but that was how Claudio liked it. The kitchen was a place of work. Above all, it had to be practical. He counted at least four ovens–enough for bulk production. He couldn’t see any brand names, but based on the absence of blotched glass or dulled surfaces, everything seemed rather new and high-end. Claudio nodded to himself. All-in-all, not a bad cafeteria, although Finn should install a room divider, so that people in the sitting area wouldn’t be bothered by the hustle in the kitchen.
Nearing his table, Claudio scanned Mel’s face, wondering whether there was any chance that this man would enjoy chatting about kitchen design. His table companion continued playing with his cutlery and glaring at the late arrivals. Claudio recognized this look: hunger. In his experience, hungry people rarely appreciated a casual conversation about room decor. He sat down quietly, and Mel instantly slapped his shoulder, too hard to be considered a friendly gesture.
“Listen, man,” Mel said. “Sorry for busting your balls earlier. I’m supposed to work on my…” he raised his hands to make air quotes, “dispositional hostility. But come on! Helena–the bodybuilder–making a pie? What were you thinking?” 
He laughed, and Claudio rubbed his shoulder, his eyes dwelled slightly from the sting.
“Yes, that was a mistake,” Claudio conceded.
Of the two dozen people in the cafeteria, most were seniors, older even than Mel. A few middle-aged people propped up their sickly faces, but, except for Helena’s table, nobody engaged in conversation. The gowns and solemn faces reminded Claudio of hospital cafeterias–elderly patients waiting for their families, getting ready to share medical updates.
A small, East-Asian looking girl ran out from the kitchen and lay her head into Helena’s lap, seemingly trying to hide from the rest of the room. She couldn’t be older than five or six, and Claudio took a deep breath. Why would someone so young be here? The girl had run with plenty of vigor, and now that Helena caressed her hair, she smiled, looking shy but healthy. Claudio hoped that she was kept in a good hospital, with excellent doctors trying to reanimate her.
“So,” Mel said, “how’d you bite it then?”
Claudio hesitated, and Mel answered instead.
“For me, classic beer-and-bacon diet,” he said and roared. “Almost made it to seventy, though. Guess, your heart opted out a little earlier than that.” 
He threw a meaningful look at Claudio’s figure. Claudio pursed his lips. It pained him even more that he hadn’t been this slim in years. Mel laughed. 
“Don’t be embarrassed, man. Couple of clogged arteries are standard around here.”
“Really?” Claudio inspected the crowd again.
Mel followed Claudio’s look towards Helena and the little girl. “No, Ms Olympia probably blew an artery while squatting.” 
He laughed again. Claudio kept his eyes on Helena, fairly sure that he had never heard something less funny.
“My own…reason to be here…is a bit unclear, so far,” he started, but Finn jumped on a plastic chair, whistled sharply, and waved a stack of index cards to get everyone’s attention.
“Welcome, everyone! Welcome to the dinner competition, to be precise! It is about cooking but also about psychology.”
Helena clapped, and Claudio quickly joined.

[The subject is friendly. No room for personal improvement in that area, although friendliness does not mean that someone is happy or has found their purpose in life.]

“Thank you, Claudio,” Finn announced. “Everyone, this is our newest arrival, Claudio, a very special guest who will probably give us excellent insights into Professor Hartmann’s theory on near-death experiences and the–” His pale smile froze. The crowd waited.
“Speaking of science, I have great news—” Finn flipped to his next index card, but didn’t need to read it. “Just a few minutes ago, Simone has awoken!” 
This announcement roused the crowd out of its depressed mood. Helena jumped from her seat, and there was applause from all tables. Finn managed a celebratory pirouette on his chair and straightened the collar of his lab coat.
Helena’s voice broke through the noise. “How, Finn? What did she do?”
“Nice one, Simone,” Mel squeezed in. “Knew the old gal had it in her.”
Finn grinned from ear to ear. 
“Yes! Simone was the first successful awakening under the new psychology protocol.” He brushed his white hair back. “Which proves that psychology works, as far as I understand.”
The crowd hesitated a bit at the oddity of Finn’s statement, but the boy continued. 
“I designed a special, customized challenge specifically for Simone, and it helped her to overcome her fear of violent husbands, as far as I understood. Using nothing but psychology, of course.”
Finn beamed a glistening smile down into the crowd and flipped to the next card. 
“Regarding my lab setup, I simulated a scene in Simone’s house and when she called the police and said that her simulated husband was being violent, I answered ‘It is good that you called us,’ with the voice of a police officer, of course, and soon afterwards Simone awoke, which might have been related to my challenge.”
Two elderly women exchanged grim nods. Helena hugged the little girl in her lap.
“So she’ll leave the bastard then, yeah?”
Claudio raised his eyebrows at Helena’s questionable choice of words. She had a little girl in her lap. Finn looked equally confused.
“Well, I do not know what Simone did after awakening. It just happened a few Earth seconds ago, to be precise.” He studied his cards. “But naturally, I designed her challenge based on B-C-T principles.” 
Finn’s translucent eyes searched the crowd, but only Claudio met his gaze now. 
“BCT stands for Behavioral Cognitive Therapy, of course.” 
He looked back and forth between Claudio and his cards. A few people settled deeper into their seats. 
“Behavioral Cognitive Therapy, or BCT for short, was invented by Dr. Mary Cover Jones, but also other human psychologists, and most of it happened in the year 57,900, according to my calculations. Back then, she used BCT to treat people’s fear of animals, of course, and not fear of violent husbands like I did. Although, now that I say it, maybe what I did is called Exposure Therapy and not Behavioral Cognitive Therapy.” 
Finn looked up from his card and let his eyes wander over the audience. He shook his head and continued reading from his card.
“Naturally, I improved Dr. Cover’s original therapy by adding a simulation of a violent husband and a phone call with the police. This proves, of course, that my version of Behavioral Cognitive Therapy, or BCT, might be better than Dr. Jones’s original therapy because–”
“Hey, Finno, bud,” Helena interjected with a soft smile. “The science is really interesting but…”
“The rest of us are still on a clock here, angel boy!” Mel interrupted.
Finn blinked rapidly, and his eye color flickered from Helena’s hazel to Mel’s blue. 
“Yes, you are right, of course, yes, time is important.” He shook his head as if angry at himself, and started discarding cards from his pile.
“Ah, yes. Tonight, we have three chefs. Each one prepares one course. Appetizer, main, and dessert. It is a competition-format challenge, to be precise. A cooking competition, to be precise.” Finn waited; the crowd waited; and he continued. “It is a standard challenge from my Creation and Bonding catalog, and, according to the literature, it addresses many psychological things: stress management, fear of competition, performance anxiety. Oh, look, Riko…” He tapped his finger on the card and pointed at the girl on Helena’s lap. “Performance anxiety–just like in your report. Maybe if you win, you will awaken.”
Claudio furrowed his eyebrows. Cooking a meal for more than twenty people with unknown dietary restrictions was daunting. He wondered how a little girl could have possibly pulled it off. Helena also seemed taken aback. She gently lifted Riko from her lap, placed her on a chair, and disappeared into the kitchen. Finn cleared his throat and flipped to the next card.
“Nutrition is important for humans, and while nutrition science is not yet a serious science like psychology, both fields overlap, in my opinion. You see, nutrition science is, of course, just biology, and biology is physics, and physics is mathematics, of course, and all of mathematics is made with human cognition, and therefore mathematics is probably a subbranch of cognitive psychology. All of this explains why humans constantly think about nutrition and why it is important for their well-being…”
Claudio zoned out and mustered the girl sitting on Helena’s chair. Cooking competitions were stressful, even for professionals. He enjoyed watching cooking shows on TV, but always switched off when the judges started criticizing people’s dishes. Their comments were often unnecessarily cruel, and he sincerely hoped that tonight’s judges would be different.

[The subject is staring at the little girl. It would be excellent news if he were a pedophile. Most psychologists consider pedophilia a massive personality flaw. Curing it would certainly make him awake.]

Finn walked around the tables, plucking papers from his clipboard and laying them onto the tables. 
“The menus also serve as your voting sheets. So, please make a cross next to your favorite course. At the end of the dinner, I will announce the winner based on the empirical data.”
Claudio picked up his menu. In a somewhat childish handwriting, it showed:
1) Appetizer by Helena [ ]
2) Main by Riko [ ]
3) Dessert by Mel [ ]
Helena reappeared behind the wall of fridges in the kitchen, carrying two bowls. Claudio jumped to his feet, rushed to the kitchen, and quickly found two serving trays. He inspected the bowls with tomato soup that Helena had lined up on the counter. He smelled cucumber and held his knuckles to the ceramic. The bowl was cold to the touch. Gazpacho. When Helena came back, she picked up a tray with bowls and thanked him.
“Gazpacho is a great choice for an appetizer,” Claudio said, hoping to redeem himself for the embarrassing guess earlier. “And quite clever, given the large number of people and the temperature management. I think you have a good chance to win.”
Helena gave him a conspiratorial look.
“I’m not getting my hopes up, friend. Pretty sure I messed up the seasoning, and I don’t mind losing tonight’s challenge, if you catch my drift.”
For some reason, she took one bowl off Claudio’s tray and exchanged it for one of hers before carrying them to the sitting area. Claudio was confused but followed her and started distributing bowls. Three or four residents seemed unaware of the food that was placed in front of them, but most gave him a tired smile or a brief nod. 
Claudio delivered the last soups, brought the serving trays back to the kitchen, and placed them into the same cupboard where he had found them. Returning to the sitting area, he was shocked to find the eaters moaning and making disgusted faces.
“Is this some sort of prank?” Mel shouted over to Helena, who had sat down next to Riko.
“Not everyone likes gazpacho, I guess,” Helena replied casually, and motioned to Riko to try the soup. The girl dunked her spoon into the bowl, licked it, and nodded happily at Helena. Claudio sat down and inspected his own bowl, which looked and smelled perfectly normal. He tried it and winced. The salt burned his tongue and his throat. Helena must have deposited half a saltshaker into the bowl.
“This is disgusting,” Mel said and pushed away his bowl.
“Vote for someone else then,” Helena said, slapping the back of a coughing man next to Riko.
Claudio instantly understood Helena’s plan. He hurried to the kitchen to fetch water for everyone, and when he passed Helena’s table, he complimented her on the appetizer and gave her a tiny wink.
“Strong competition for the other courses, that’s for sure.”
Helena smiled.
“Thanks, Claudio. I tried my best, but I know that Riko has prepared something that’s maybe even more special.”
Some of the elderly residents appeared to realize what was happening and smiled at the little girl, before covertly passing their full bowls of gazpacho back to Claudio, who hid them in the kitchen.

[The subject is doing a lot of work for Helena. Being nice is good for finding romantic partners, although it is also bad, according to the psychological literature.]

When it was time for the main dish, Helena and Riko carried out a giant pot. Helena used her free hand to guide Riko from table to table. Claudio thought the girl looked adorable with her large serving spoon, and most residents made a brave face when Riko gave them generous servings of gray sludge. Claudio’s best guess was that it was Riko’s best attempt at making stew.
When it was his turn, Claudio avoided looking too closely at the shapeless ingredients floating in the oily liquid and demanded an extra-large portion. He immediately inserted a full spoon into his mouth and nodded enthusiastically. All around the room, eyelids twitched and foreheads were wiped, but people’s spoons kept moving up and down until most of the bowls were empty. Riko herself only tried one spoonful of her dubious creation and then focused on receiving compliments from her table neighbors. 
Mel scoffed and let a spoonful plop back into his bowl before shifting his chair closer to Claudio.
“Look, I get it. We’re being nice to the girl. Trying to have her wake up or whatever. But Finn could’ve let me know that this competition is a sham. I wasted an hour of meditation time on my stupid cookies.”
Claudio looked over to the gray-eyed boy floating between the tables and studying the residents’ ambivalent reactions to the stew.
“Maybe Finn didn’t plan on people supporting Riko.”
“Well, if that stupid boy thinks we can have a fair—“
Mel’s eyes widened, and he got up from his chair. He sat down again and stared at Finn, as if the boy had just transformed into a 1950’s pin-up girl.
“Oh shit,” Helena shouted and came rushing across the room. The clinking of spoons fell silent, and chair legs scraped the ground as people looked their way.
Mel lifted an arm in Finn’s direction, and his mouth opened and closed, as if he had forgotten how to breathe. Helena grabbed him by the shoulders and stabilized him against the back of his chair. Mel started convulsing. Claudio’s face was as white as Finn’s. Helena lifted Mel’s chin, but instead of performing CPR, she merely looked into his eyes.
“Ah, shit, mate,” she mumbled. 
Claudio was mesmerized. Mel’s pupils were frozen in place, but all around there was steady movement, waves—washing over the dark spots and bright stripes in his irises.
“He elapsed,” Helena said to everyone, and then, with a brief look at Claudio, she added, “his body on Earth has died. Nothing we can do.”
There were a few solemn head shakes among the residents, but otherwise few displays of emotion. The door rattled, and Claudio looked around the room. 
“I think the girl has run away.”
8
Slowly, the crazy jungle music subsided, and the beach reappeared between the branches. Maya panted, looking into the thicket behind her. Uma had stopped chasing her, and Maya took a second to inspect the scratches on her arms. That cat is vicious.
She staggered through the last branches and onto the sand. There was a building to her left, old red bricks, oddly reminiscent of the entrance to her father’s zoo. Maya spotted a horde of old people watching the sun go down over the ocean. Many of them wore long shirts or medical gowns, and they hadn’t noticed her yet. Maya could hear them talking about a dinner and someone named Riko. An old folks' home in the rainforest…what is my brain doing?
Maya sneaked past them and up the stairs to the building. They must have water at the reception—and a phone. To call whom?
There was no reception, only a corridor with a long glass wall towards the forest—panorama windows—like in the zoo—although no animals were in sight. Maya walked quitely on her socks and listened intently to the coughs and creaks behind the numbered doors. Half-way down the corridor, someone had stuck an envelope to door nineteen, which read, ‘To Maya.’
She squinted, ripped the envelope from the door, took a deep breath, and stormed into the room.
It was empty. The furniture—bunk bed, square table, grimy carpet—reminded Maya of a youth hostel. When she pulled the table across the room to block the door, she accidentally knocked a dried-up cactus from the nightstand. Dirt kernels rolled over the carpet. Maya ignored the mess, pushed the table against the door, sat down on it, and opened the envelope.
Dear resident,
My name is Finn (doctor title pending), and it is an honor to welcome you to my Reanimation Island. I hope you had a pleasant journey here. The dormitory serves as your temporary residence during your near-death experience. 
Throughout your stay, I will provide you with scientific challenges designed to give you new perspectives on your life, uncover hidden talents, or maybe remind you of your ‘true purpose’–any of which could lead to your reanimation.
Failure to make personal progress will result in elapsing, a fate that, despite my scientific program, still befalls all of the residents and consists of a sudden disappearance from the island due to the irreversible death of your comatose, physical body on Earth.
Relatedly, we advise you to avoid injuries to your temporary body on the island. Incapacitation of any form usually forestalls your personal development and will leave your Earthly body to vegetate and die.
Further, residents are encouraged to: 
Follow the instructions of the scientific staff.
Stay away from the dark side of the beach.
Breaking the rules will lead to immediate expulsion from the dormitory.
Sincerely,
Finn 
Senior researcher 
Creator of Reanimation Island
Official Collaborator of Professor Dr. Elizabeth Hartmann

Maya shook her head and read the letter again. Finn was the name of the boy in the lab coat, but the rest was total gibberish. She balled up the letter and threw it into the corner of the room. She pondered what the online forums had said about tripping on fumes. Just wild.
Voices came through the door, two people. One woman.
“Thanks for helping with the dishes, Claudi-boy.”
“Oh, of course. I mean, it’s much faster if everybody helps out a little. That’s the motto we have in my cafeteria.”
Harmless. Maybe helpful.
Maya pulled the table aside and opened the door, just when the pale boy grabbed the handle from the other side.
“This is your room, Clau—ahhh!
The boy jolted away from Maya, and his face transformed into hers. Maya screamed and jumped back herself.
“Terror and confusion!” the boy screamed in Maya’s voice. He rubbed his face and his pale, empty eyes reappeared.
“What the f—,” Maya screamed, but a tall woman stepped between her and the boy.
“Sorry, Sorry, Sorry.” She turned to the boy. “Finn, take off for a moment, yeah?”
The boy shook his head and pulled at the woman’s sports clothes.
“Better keep some distance. Maya has dispositional aggression.”
“I’m sure we can manage,” the woman replied. “I’ll take over the briefing. You focus on finding Riko, alright?”
The boy pursed his lips.
“Well, technically speaking, the principal investigator should do all the briefings.”
A round man in a crinkled suit came to the front.
“I still remember my briefing, Finn. Maybe it’s best if I relay all the information to…” He looked at her. 
What is going on?
“Maya,” she said, hesitantly.
“Nice to meet you, Maya,” the man said. “My name is Claudio, and these are Helena and…I guess you already met Finn.”
“What is happening here? Is this still part of my trip?”
The man named Claudio made a concerned face.
“Well…no,” he said. “How about we sit down and talk about it for a second. Finn, are you going to look for Riko?”
The boy’s jaw moved back and forth. Then, he nodded reluctantly.
“Fine. Anyway, this is your room. You and Maya can throw a coin to determine who gets which bed.”
Claudio furrowed his brow, and Helena crossed her arms.
“Ehrm, Finn?” she said. “No offense to my old friend here, but I don’t think we should start mixing grown men and teenage girls.”
Claudio nodded eagerly.
“Fully agree and no offense taken.”
Finn’s pale skin became red, and he balled his fists.
“Residents do not get to decide which room I assign them to.”
With each breath, the boy seemed to grow, and the red tone of his skin wandered into his angry eyes. Claudio lifted his hands conciliatorily.
“We don’t mean to disrupt your plan, but aren’t there a lot of empty rooms? I could just…”
“No, you cannot!” Finn screamed, revealing sharp teeth. He had grown to Helena’s height and boomed down at Claudio in a deep voice. “The reason that you’re in the same room as Maya is because you are a pedophile.”
“Whoa,” Helena said.
Claudio opened his mouth, shocked either by the accusation or the boy’s changing appearance.
“How can you even say this?” he muttered and turned to Maya. “I’m so sorry. This whole experience must already be quite scary to you. Of course, I am neither…that…nor will I stay in the same room as you.”
I could run back into the jungle.
“Residents who break my rules will be excluded from the Reanimation Program,” the boy roared. Helena lifted her arms.
“Okay, let’s all calm down, yeah? I might have a solution. Claudio, could you leave us alone for a moment?”
Claudio looked at Helena confusedly, but then nodded.
“Sure, yes. Maybe Finn and I could get some fresh clothes for Maya?” 
He pointed at her sweater, where the vomit, paint, and mud had formed a thick crust.
“We actually need Finn here,” Helena said. “We have to do some…talking.”
The boy cocked his head at Helena, but began to shrink. The angry red light drained from his gray eyes. Again, Claudio looked confused.
“Sure, I mean, of course I can leave you three to discuss in private…I will just…”
Finn—now regular-sized and with normal teeth—pointed down the corridor.
“There are pajamas in the common room cupboard. They fit everyone within three standard deviations of the average human.”

9
Claudio took his time walking down the corridor towards the common room. He didn’t want to return too quickly, appear overeager, and disturb the trio and their discussion about him and his possible pedophilia. He cleared his throat. Outside, dawn had set in, pouring eerie shadows into the forest. Claudio watched his reflection in the window walking alongside him. From the darkness behind the glass, knotty branches pierced through his mirror image. He frowned. Of course, he shouldn’t be offended; he knew that. Helena was only looking out for Maya, and Finn was trying to diagnose him with some fixable disorder. But still, for some reason, Claudio felt ashamed. Maybe because he had wondered for a while whether people suspected him of being deranged in that way. An awkward, middle-aged, unmarried man working at an educational institution…it was natural that people wondered about him. Claudio balled his fist and bit the inside of his cheek.

	[More signs of rumination. Maybe a positive transformation could be to stop the rumination.]

Claudio entered the empty common room and quickly found the wardrobe with the pajamas. He picked out a red one for Maya and a blue one for himself. Turning back to the door, his eyes found the chair where Mel had elapsed. Claudio would never forget those menacing eyes turning wavy and jittery. It was only understandable that Riko had run away.
Claudio made a plan. He would hang Maya’s pajamas on the outside door handle of the room, and then go searching for Riko. Of course, people’s suspicions towards him would only grow, but so what? There was a scared girl out there who had just died on Earth and now found herself on a strange island far away from her parents. If he managed to bring her back to the dormitory, it was worth the accusations. Determined, he walked back into the corridor and bumped into Helena.
“Ey, Claudi,” she said cheerfully. “Background check’s done. You’re all clear.”
“Oh,” Claudio said, “you did a background—“
“Yup, no abnormalities. Didn’t know you were a chef. That’s pretty neat. As is your apartment, by the way.” She laughed and pushed him in the shoulder. “I’m gonna go to bed. Showers are at the other end of the corridor.”
Claudio stuttered, failing to respond to Helena’s various statements.
“Oh, okay…but…shouldn’t we look for Riko first? I’m afraid she ran into the forest or into the water—”

[Regardless of what Helena says, the subject is clearly obsessing over child safety. It is common, but, pychologically speaking, he should focus on his own development.]

Helena waved him off.
“Finn already got her. That old creep knows what everyone’s doing at all times. I’ll see you tomorrow, mate. Just wait in your room. I’ll pick you up for your challenge.”
Before Claudio could ask about details of the background check, Helena disappeared into her room. He pressed his lips together and walked over to room fifteen, carefully knocking on the door. A muffled grunt from the other side signaled him to come in. Claudio opened and grimaced when he saw Maya sitting on her duvet in her muddy clothes.
“I brought the pajamas,” he said, holding them up and carefully placing Maya’s on the chair. “I will take a shower now.” 
He quickly turned back to the door, but then made a face and faced Maya again. “I’m very sorry, by the way…that you’re forced to share a room with me…with an adult, I mean. It must be…weird.” He thought for a second and shook his head. “Sorry, maybe I shouldn’t have said that. I’m probably making it weirder right now. I guess everything here is a bit weird.”
Maya scoffed and jumped off her bed, leaving flakes of mud and paint all over the carpet.
“You are making it weird. I see what they meant by ‘poor communication skills.’”
“Oh.” Claudio’s smile wavered. “Finn and Helena said that I have poor communication skills?”
He wondered how they had come to that conclusion.
“Well, Finn said it,” Maya said, and swiped an envelope from the table. There was a second envelope with Claudio’s name. “He said a bunch of things about you that weren’t exactly nice.”
Maya jumped back onto her bed, fully ruining the sheets with her dirty jeans. Claudio breathed heavily.
“Well, I’m sure he has his reasons,” he said and laid a hand on the door handle. “As long as you and Helena know that I’m not…”
“…a pedophile?” Maya asked, opening her envelope.
Claudio pursed his lips and felt heat rushing to his face. He took a deep breath.
“Well, whatever Finn told you, I hope that you and Helena feel more comf—”
“Finn didn’t tell us anything. But Helena got close to him and kind of looked into his eyes for a while.” Maya kept her eyes on her hands, but her voice wavered slightly. “That was weird.”
Claudio cringed. 
“Well, I’m sure none of it was very comfortable to you. Sometimes, Finn seems to forget how…unusual…everything is here—especially for children.”
At the word ‘children,’ Maya gave him an angry look, pulled a letter out of her envelope, and started reading. Slowly, her face became even grimmer, and she moved her jaw from left to right. Claudio stepped from one foot to the other, unsure how to salvage the situation.
“Anyway, I will take a shower, get changed, and then go to sleep. It’s been quite a day, wouldn’t you say?”
Maya didn’t respond, still squinting at her letter. Claudio cleared his throat and glanced at the brown-yellow goo dripping off Maya’s elbow.
“I mean, your day must have been even wilder than mine. Let’s hope they have a laundry machine around here, right? A dormitory probably has lots, don’t you think? Probably with dryers and everything. Although some laundry machines can be difficult to use, especially if you’ve never done laundry yourself.” 
He gave a little laugh and looked at her expectantly. Maya balled up the paper, faced the wall, and let herself plop onto the mattress, smearing the dirt through the sheets and into the foam below. Claudio groaned, disguised it with a cough, and quickly left the room. In the corridor, he took a breath and reopened the door slightly.
“If you leave your dirty clothes in the corridor, I will make sure they’re clean in the morning.”
There was no response from inside the room. Claudio closed the door again. Claudio opened the door again.
“Should I bring you some food from the kitchen? Or did you already have dinner on Earth?”

[Based on the evidence from this interaction, the subject cares about cleanliness. Compulsive behaviors (e.g., cleaning) often lead to romantic failures, which would explain the subject’s loneliness. Although other studies say that cleanliness is a good thing for relationships. This is called a gap in the literature.]

10
The iron bar pressed deep into Helena’s calloused hands. She let the weight push her down, took a deep breath, and then slowly let the bar sink towards her chest. Again and again, she forced the weight back up, every repetition taking longer and longer. One last time, her chest stretched and her arms screamed. Finally, the metal plates rattled on the rack, and she could breathe again.
Keeping her head on the bench, Helena stared up at the white specks of chalk in the grooves of the barbell. She smacked her hands together, watching the white dust fly towards the stars behind her skylight.
Her muscles bulged against her skin. She rotated her wrists, listening to the cracking. Reaching underneath the bench, her fingers found the water bottle, and she felt the cool liquid run past her beating heart towards her stomach. 
She lay down and let her hands glide over the bar, feeling the falling chalk caress her face. She twisted her fingers around the iron until her skin was tight. She pressed her shoulder blades into the bench and slid her feet back into position, hearing her trainers scrape over the floor. The barbell lifted from its hinges, and Helena started counting. The iron moved slower and slower, and her heart beat faster and faster.

11
The stars above Maya already faded into cobalt blue when her roommate finally started snoring in the bottom bunk. She slipped out of bed, landed silently on the carpet, and slipped out the door. As promised, Claudio had removed the embarrassing, smelly pile of clothes she had left in the corridor. Pajamas would do. Time to get out of here.
The rubbery floor clung to her socks as she hurried along the floor-to-ceiling windows. She put her weight against the heavy entrance door, rushed down the stairs, and stepped onto the sand. The sky brightened unnaturally fast, but cool night air lingered in the ocean breeze. Maya shuddered and rubbed her arms over the thin fabric. It was so early that she was the only one hearing the gushing waves. Birds chirped in the treetops, announcing a human’s premature appearance on the beach. Maya looked into the distance, where the beach disappeared into a veil of fog. Probably even colder there.
She started marching. Soon her feet got numb to the scratches and pricks of the little stones and shells in the sand. Finn’s confusing announcement from last night had turned out to be true: The night had lasted less than four hours. Maya hadn’t slept a second of it. She considered that, given that her nausea and the strange noises had disappeared, and that it a lot of time had passed, maybe her surroundings weren’t hallucinations after all. Although drugs can make time feel different.
As she wandered further down the beach and passed the shed where she had woken up, black boulders emerged from the sand around her, and the waves subsided to weak little trickles. This time, she noticed the orangutan earlier, walking alongside her, partially hidden behind the first row of trees.
“What do you want, Koko?” Maya shouted over.
The ape lifted one arm and waved. His fingers were closed around something shiny.
“I don’t want to play right now,” Maya yelled.
Koko had a habit of ‘stealing’ Chrissy’s toys and expecting Maya and Chrissy to chase him down. The ape wiggled his arms, vocalized loudly, and jumped up and down while looking at Maya and waving whatever he had in his hand. Maya’s lips curled slightly.
“You want me to chase you?” I haven’t chased him in weeks.
Maya rolled her eyes, but dropped into a dramatic starting position. Koko mirrored her. She felt apprehensive about going into the forest, but, for some reason, she knew that the visions of the cage wouldn’t return today. She was doing Koko a favor by playing with him. The universe wouldn’t punish her for it. One more good deed.
Maya sprinted into the forest, and the orangutan screamed, swinging from branches and lianas to stay ahead of her. Maya reduced her speed, knowing the ape would tire out eventually. She opened her senses to the forest, hearing the early-morning woodpeckers starting their shifts. Ducking under a bushel of chartreuse, plum-like fruits, she spotted a wild toucan hiding under a bush and cocking its head at her. Maya and Chrissy had often discussed the personalities of different animal species. Maya tipped an imaginary hat to the toucan. Good morning, sir. 
Ahead, Koko screamed and waved the shiny object, urging Maya on to follow him. She smiled. If everybody on this island was doomed to die, there was actually no hurry for her to go into the fog. Maybe she could do something fun with her final hours. 
“I’m gonna getcha,” she yelled, and Koko screeched and ran ahead.
Maya pulled Finn’s crumpled letter out of her pocket while walking in Koko’s direction. ‘Visit the Auratus Gallery,’ it said in childish handwriting. Maya scoffed and stuffed the paper back into her pocket. She had visited enough galleries for a lifetime. 
Maya jumped on a fallen log and balanced alongside the sand path. Koko waved, trying to reinitiate the chase. Maya laughed. The upcoming end of her life had somehow rekindled her love for nature. She started jogging and skipping until the muddy surroundings forced her to step carefully. A toad croaked close by, and a thin streamlet of water flowed through the mud. Koko seemed to follow it. The water looked dirty and ran through clusters of shimmering mushrooms. Probably a potent brew.
Maya brushed through a group of ferns and almost slipped on a mossy log. She looked ahead and thought someone had forgotten to color in the forest. White cherry trees formed a circular fort around a deep-set pond–a snow castle in the jungle. The cherry trees had shed their blossoms in and around the water to create the illusion of a wintry lake. 
“–this was good Riko, but you have to sing louder. You have to behave extravertedly, to be precise. Based on my assessment, your extraversion percentile is too low, and we have to increase it, as far as I understand. Although some psychologists, of course, say that introversion is not a clinical condition. Why is your face doing a new thing now? Is this confusion?” It’s the freak.
Koko stood still behind a cherry tree and looked down to where the boy’s voice came from. Maya waded through an ankle-high layer of cherry blossoms and peeked over Koko’s shoulder to see Finn and a little girl sitting by the pond. The boy’s face morphed back and forth between the girl’s mirror image and his own pale features. Maya held her breath. How is he doing that?
The boy shook his head as if angry with himself.
“Why did you not mention that you do not speak English?”
Finn continued his monologue in an Asian language. Feathers rustled past Maya’s ear, and two sparrows fluttered towards Riko and began circling her head.
Riko ducked and watched the birds anxiously, but Finn nodded and pulled her to her feet. The girl’s legs shook, and she kept her eyes on her hands slowly mangling a fistful of cherry blossoms. The sparrows sat down next to Finn and watched the girl. Riko’s torso heaved as she closed her eyes, pressed the blossoms to her chest, and started singing a quiet note. Maya inched closer and accidentally nudged the mesmerized orangutan.
Koko screamed and sprang into the air as if a tiger had sneaked up on him. Finn and Riko winced and turned in their direction. The cherry blossoms fell from Riko's fingers into the pond. Her eyes widened, and she ran into the forest.
“Why would you distract her?” Finn yelled at Maya. “Introverted humans cannot awaken when you distract them. We established that during last night’s dinner competition.”
For some reason, Finn’s accusation stung like poison.
“I didn’t distract her,” Maya screamed back. Koko glared at the boy in the lab coat and slapped the ground. Maya took a step down the embankment. “You distracted her with your weird face swapping. Koko and I were just watching.”
“Oh,” Finn said and touched his chin. “Yes, that is an alternative explanation for her behavior, of course.” 
Koko threw a fistful of cherry blossoms in Finn’s direction, his right hand still holding onto the shiny object. Maya could feel her heartbeat in her temples. No chance Riko was about to make a ‘life-changing insight’ by singing. 
She pointed into the forest.
“And now you’re letting her run away. Why don’t you just kill her!”
“Oh yes,” Finn said, watching the two sparrows fly after the little girl. “That is correct, too.”
The boy hastened up the slope and stopped under a cherry tree. 
“I will find Riko,” he said and pointed in the direction where the girl had disappeared, “and debrief her from her singing challenge, of course, because otherwise, why don’t I just kill her.” He nodded at Koko and then at the pond. “You can go ahead.” 
Maya frowned as Finn skipped happily into the trees. Koko gently pushed her down the incline towards the water. 
“Leave me alone,” she snapped at the orangutan. “I don’t want to play anymore.”
Maya surveyed the murky water at her feet. There was nothing special about the pond. The white tree tops reflected in the brown water. What did he mean by ‘go ahead’? Was he speaking to Koko?
The orangutan came to her side and threw an object into the water—a yellow dot, moving and scurrying aimlessly below the surface. A goldfish?
Maya got on one knee, and the goldfish came closer, possibly expecting food. It was a miracle that it had survived Koko’s wild run through the forest. The fish’s round mouth opened and closed, mindlessly filtering the water. It was hypnotic: the mouth becoming imperceptibly flat and then perfectly round. A line and a circle. A line and a circle. 
Maya chewed her lip. Somehow, a memory of her family had sparked. All four of them, walking through the zoo’s aquarium. Her dad had been so proud, pointing out all the new fish species.
The cherry trees swayed behind Maya. Koko’s reflection had disappeared from her side. At the waterline, goldfish and human came closer. Her dad had knocked his finger on one of the signs and read out loud, ‘Carassius Auratus’—the scientific name for goldfish. 
Carassius Auratus. ‘Go to the Auratus Gallery.’ 
The fish’s mouth opened one more time—bigger and bigger—and plucked Maya from the shore.

12
Claudio walked back and forth in front of the dead cactus, massaging his neck to relieve his headaches. The sun stood high, drawing the skylight’s rectangular outline onto the carpet. Although there was no clock in the room, he felt embarrassed about how long he had slept, and immediately tried to make up for it by tidying the room, retrieving Maya’s clothes from the laundry machine, folding them, and washing her mud-covered sheets. 

[Why is the subject not reading his challenge description? Is he unable to see the envelope on the table? Visual agnosia is a rare condition, but I could easily treat it with Rehabilitation.]

Claudio had been concerned to find Maya gone, but soothed himself by reiterating that, when Mel had elapsed during dinner, the clothes he had worn had disappeared as well, and given that Maya’s clothes were still here, she should be around somewhere. 
Once more, Claudio opened the door and looked down the corridor…still no sign of Helena. Hadn’t she said that she’d pick him up? He sat on the chair, sighed, and opened the envelope with his name.

	Claudio cringed. Of course, his challenge was about social skills—no surprise there. He found the risk scores more concerning. In his own life, a ten out of ten physical risk meant carrying boiling tea in-between cafeteria guests. As long as the challenge stayed around that risk level, he would be okay. Claudio’s knee danced up and down, and he wiped his forehead. Maybe the risk score was high compared to other challenges in the social skill catalogue, which were probably all fairly mild.
	He adjusted his freshly washed pocket square in his jacket, regretted having neither a comb nor a shaving kit, and checked the corridor again. Maybe Helena had come earlier and decided to let him sleep. This would explain why Maya was gone. Maybe he had slept so deeply that they hadn’t managed to wake him. If so, he would die of embarrassment. Claudio spotted some dry soil on the carpet, picked it up, and sprinkled it back into the cactus pot. He could go and water it. The door flew open, and Finn stormed in.
	“Claudio. Ready for your challenge?”
	Claudio whirled around, holding onto the table.
	“Yes…I mean…no…I mean…the letter wasn’t…I was supposed to wait and…Helena said she’d—”
	“I already put Helena into the lab. She will be my secret confederate in your upcoming challenge, to be precise.”
	Finn winked at him and clapped his hands.
*** 
White all around. Nothing but endless white in all directions. Claudio stumbled and caught his balance. The ground was hard, albeit invisible in the oppressive nothingness. Based on Finn’s height, the boy stood a few steps in front of him. Next to Claudio, Helena, glared at Finn, crossing her arms in front of her chest.
“Yo,” she said. “You put me in here hours ago, mate. Did you forget about me?”
“I had to concentrate on Riko’s development,” Finn said, scowling. “And, in case you are wondering, she did not awaken. And, according to Maya, this might have been because I distracted her.” Finn dropped his milky eyes. “Psychology is difficult.”
Helena’s expression softened.
 “Look, you’re doing fine, mate.” She raised her eyebrows at Claudio. “Isn’t Finn doing well? Proper psychologist, if you ask me.”
Claudio nodded. 
“Absolutely. The brain scans. The science knowledge. And Maya mentioned that you did a full background check on me yesterday, which is really impressive.”
Finn sniffed.
“Background checks are not the same as psychology. Helena and I just reviewed the kind of pornography you watch.”
Claudio stumbled back, tripped over his heels, and fell onto the invisible ground. He gazed up at Helena who walked up to him and offered her hand. He pulled away. Helena sighed. 
“Relax, mate. Obviously, we didn’t show anything to Maya. Just had to make sure that you’re not into any sick stuff. That’s it.”
Claudio’s head swam, and the headaches returned tenfold.
“I…how can you just…”

[The subject is ashamed of his sexual preferences. Maybe that is the reason for his romantic failures.]

“Listen,” Helena said, “as far as we saw, the stuff you’re watching is pretty normal. Kind of vanilla, actually.” She looked at Claudio’s face and added, “…in the best way.”
Unable to meet Helena’s eyes, Claudio staggered to his feet, staring breathlessly at Finn.
“Listen, you can’t just look into people’s private—”
“Yes, I can,” Finn shouted back. His voice seemed to come from all directions in the endless white. “Behavioral observations are ethical, in terms of science. Behavioral observations can be made on Earth as well as online (i.e., on the internet). It has been done many times.”
Claudio’s heart beat in his throat. These two had betrayed his trust…although it had been to protect Maya. He couldn’t believe Helena had seen the videos that he…and she had called him ‘vanilla’ which clearly sounded like a bad thing. He wiped his face and continued glaring at Finn—the boy who looked no older than fifteen—and who had seen what Helena had seen. The headaches pierced through his temples and into his jaw muscles.
“Okay,” Finn said, “I will now begin the scientific briefing of the challenge participants.” He pushed a pair of nonexistent glasses on his nose. Helena looked at him with amusement, and Claudio tried to regain composure. “Alright, it follows the briefing.” Finn adjusted the sleeves of his lab coat and started reading from the clipboard. “I, the principal investigator, and Helena observed that the primary subject exhibits above-average awkwardness in his interactions with women. This awkwardness may be the reason for the subject’s romantic failures and/or his frequent loneliness.”
Claudio’s face was burning. His head pulsed painfully, making the white surroundings flicker in dark shades. He put his hands on his knees and took slow breaths through his nose. Finn pointed at his clipboard.
“There are two important communication skills that can prevent awkwardness, according to the literature: perspective taking, which is similar to empathy, as far as I understand, and nonverbal communication, which means moving your eyes instead of talking with your mouth, I believe.” Finn flipped to the next page. “Because we are trying to fix problems with the subject’s communication skills, this challenge is, of course, a collaboration challenge.”
Helena smiled, came over to Claudio, and casually put her elbow on his shoulders as if they were battle-tested teammates. Claudio failed to return her smile. He wasn’t sure whether collaboration was necessarily good news. In his experience, being part of a team could be nice, but came with the risk of screwing up and losing the appreciation of one’s teammates.

[If smiling counts, the participants are already engaging in nonverbal communication, which can only have three reasons. They’re either practicing for the challenge, exchanging hidden messages, or flirting non-committally.]

Finn continued. “A newly developed challenge from the bonding and communication corpus, to be precise. I don’t have any validation data yet, but I estimate that the psychological risk is a seven.”
“What…a seven?” exclaimed Helena, taking her elbow from Claudio’s shoulder, “Why would you give us—”
“Physical risk,” Finn added, “is a ten.”
Helena fell silent. Claudio looked from one to the other. If he was honest, ten out of ten had seemed a little high when he had read the letter. He lifted a finger.
“When you say ten…”
“Finn,” Helena interrupted. “Why would you give us a sudden-death challenge?” She pointed her thumb at her chest. “I just arrived, and so did he. We’re stable. Are you sure you’ve got the right papers? Think about risk-benefits here for a mome—”
Finn’s expression became stern. The red light returned to his eyes and he made a short cutting motion with his hand. Helena’s mouth still moved, but there was no more sound. 
“Helena never trusts me with my lab setups,” Finn mumbled without looking at Claudio. “She probably thinks I am a bad psychologist.” He looked downwards and sifted through his papers. 
Claudio looked around, realizing that there was no way to escape, nowhere to hide from Finn in the infinite white space. Helena took a few steps towards the boy and seemed to collide with an invisible barrier. She staggered back, held her forehead, and opened her mouth repeatedly—again, no sounds came out. Finn stared at Claudio’s face, the red color fading from his eyes and being replaced by hazel brown. The shadow of a stubble appeared on his youthful chin.
“I detect negative emotions in your nervous system,” Finn said. “Is it because of the magic?” The boy’s eyebrows thickened further, and Claudio squirmed under the boys investigation. Finn’s voice dropped, and his skin bronzed. “Are you upset because I am breaking my scientific protocol? I am allowed to use magic in the lab. It speeds up the experimental setup, to be precise.”
“Well,” Claudio said, feeling very uncomfortable speaking to a half-boy version of himself. “I think you’re a very good psychologist, but maybe we should listen to Helena? Just to be safe you’ve got the right challenge?” 
The boy shrugged. His eyebrows flattened, and he rubbed his paling nose. “Yes, I remember that listening to participants is important. It was part of the ethics application, to be precise. I submitted and approved it myself.” Finn smiled and nodded at Claudio. “Not bad! You could be a good psychologist as well, I think.” He stopped short. “Maybe that is your way towards awakening–a career change. It has been studied, and it is definitely psychological.”
Claudio forced a smile, knowing he would never want to work outside a kitchen. Finn made a note on his clipboard.

[A career change can bring personal growth, but only if the subject does not consider himself ‘too old for changing jobs.’ Otherwise, the psychological effect could be bad (rather than good).]

The boy shook his head. “But first, we fix your communication problems.” Turning towards Helena, he added, “When I make you audible again, please do not criticize my lab setup, okay?”
Helena nodded, but her cheek muscles kept squeezing away. Finn made a lifting motion, and Helena quickly turned towards Claudio.
“Listen, during the challenge, we save ourselves first. We go left to right, easy to difficult, low to high. If he gives us opposing goals—”
“No!” Finn exclaimed and repeated his sweeping gesture. Helena’s lips moved silently. Finn shook his clipboard at Claudio. “See? She is always trying to trick me. Especially during high-risk challenges. I do not understand it.” The boy shook his head at Helena. “Verbal communication is not allowed when the challenge is about perspective-taking. This you must agree to.”
Claudio looked helplessly at Helena. Finn mumbled something, and a wooden desk popped into existence in front of Claudio. Something hit him in the back of the knees, and he slumped down onto a chair. Helena had received the same treatment, sitting at a duplicate desk next to him.
Again, Finn mumbled something, and a clunky, rectangular apparatus appeared on each desk, like an old-timey radio with five prominent switches on the front and a horizontal volume bar on top. Finn flipped to the next page on his clipboard. 
Helena got up, but Finn nodded his head in her direction and, in the blink of an eye, she was back in her chair. Her nostrils flared, and she launched another silent tirade at the boy. A new wave of stress-induced headaches seared through Claudio’s brain. He pressed his damp fingers against his forehead.
“Finn,” he said in a strained voice. “My communication skills are probably not the best, but maybe Helena’s idea of double-checking the necessary risks—”
“Claudio, please,” Finn shouted. “I designed a very complicated lab setup for you, so please let me concentrate.” 

[Based on behavioral observations, both participants keep interrupting me. Benevolent microaggressions fit Helena’s personality profile, but contradict my numerous diagnoses of Claudio (e.g., low confidence, social anxiety).]

Helena gestured angrily, spurring Claudio on to keep talking, but he wasn’t sure what to say. Finn accidentally dropped his clipboard and crawled over the invisible floor, trying to get the papers back in order 
Claudio eyed the strange apparatus on the table in front of him. There were no texts or labels. Finn muttered, “Some way to administer the shocks,” and a small antenna grew out of the apparatus, pointing straight between Claudio’s eyes. The volume bar lit up in yellow, and the whole desk started humming with electric energy. Claudio leaned back, his heart toppling out of rhythm.
Finn looked up from the papers and gestured towards their tables. “Hmm, it says that no explicit information can be exchanged between the participants.” 
A thick brown curtain unrolled and hung in mid-air, occluding Helena from Claudio’s view. Finn continued reading, and Claudio heard him whisper to himself.
“But participants have to see each other, of course. I wrote it right here. Nonverbal communication needs eyes and arms.”
The curtain disappeared, and the desks—alongside Claudio and Helena—moved as if on invisible tracks until they faced each other. Claudio could see fear in Helena’s eyes as she inspected her apparatus. Finn stepped closer and looked at the space between the tables.
“I could maybe put something here–”
The air between Claudio and Helena became blurred like a foggy window.
Finn scratched his head. “No, this does not work. You have to see each other. In the original study, the participants could hear each other, but that version was not a collaboration challenge, of course.” 
Claudio cleared his throat and started carefully. “Finn, if you want to take some time…maybe do someone else’s challenge first—”
“No,” Finn shouted. “I remember.” He briefly held his hands in the space between the desks and then stepped back. “Now the light takes longer here.” 
He grinned at Claudio and then started hopping around the back of Claudio’s desk. When Finn reached Helena’s side, he disappeared for a few seconds before continuing his skipping. While the boy was still behind Helena, a second version of him already appeared next to Claudio, and after a few seconds, the clone on the other side disappeared.
“It’s…a time delay?” Claudio asked. 
Finn nodded. “Physics. The third most powerful science from Earth.”
Claudio couldn’t hold on any longer. “Finn, I’m very sorry but…I have to say it…a risk score of ten sounds very high to me. I mean, it cannot mean ‘deadly’, right? I’m sorry, I probably misunderstood, but maybe you could explain it again, please? I’m sorry.”
Finn furrowed his eyebrows in confusion. “Deadly? I mean, most people on my island die, to be precise. Statistically speaking, you could die any second, although your case is a bit special, of course.”
Claudio eyed the buzzing antenna which pointed at him like an electric needle. “I’m referring to this specific thing here…it cannot…kill us, right?” He looked over to Helena, who also leaned as far back on her chair as possible.
“Oh,” Finn said, his eyes lighting up. “Yes, of course it can kill you. It is important that it can kill you, to be precise. The constant threat of death helps humans to grow. That is what near-death experiences are all about.” He eyed Claudio suspiciously. “Did you really not understand that by now? Every psychologist knows about the importance of death. Even philosophers know.” He cleared his throat and crossed his arms behind his lab coat. “A human named Mark Twain said that a man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.” 
The boy furrowed his eyebrows and stared into the white void. “Although this would mean the opposite of what I just said, I think. Why would someone who found their purpose be prepared to die at any time? Would they not be the ones who want to live? Otherwise, my entire idea of psychological awakenings would be wrong.”
The boy’s empty eyes widened in fear, and he looked at Claudio, who didn’t quite follow, but hoped that Finn’s new insights would somehow dissuade him from this challenge.
“No wait,” Finn said. “It is Mister Mark Twain–no doctor title. Not even a psychologist, I believe.” The boy laughed and sighed. “Yes, that explains it. Anyway, back to your challenge. I based it on the classic Milgram experiments, of course, which were an infamous violation of research ethics. Dr. Stanley Milgram, of course, violated research ethics because he used deception in his experiment, whereas I will administer real electric shocks. So my experiment is more ethical than the original because there is no lying involved, as far as I understand.”
Claudio looked through the blurry time delay towards Helena, who appeared to listen to Finn for a moment longer and then slammed her fist onto her table. Her wide eyes suggested that she had heard of the Milgram experiments and didn’t like what Finn had planned for them.

13
Maya tapped the head of the golden fish statue, hoping it would transport her back to the forest, but the fish's mouth only squirted bursts of dirty water onto the marble floor. The words ‘Auratus Gallery’ were embossed in a shining circle around the drinking fountain. The splashing of the water echoed from the walls, and the growing puddle mirrored the golden arteries in the marble ceiling. 
Ugh.
Maya would have preferred to spend her last hours playing with Koko in the forest. She exhaled through her nose and surveyed the dozen tunnels spreading like sun rays from the fountain hall. The overabundance of marble reminded her of the Greek section in the Louvre—their final vacation as a complete family. If this ‘Auratus Gallery’ were a proper art gallery, it would hopefully offer some distraction.
The words ‘Millennium 58’ were engraved above the nearest tunnel. Maya furrowed her eyebrows and inspected the other engravings. ‘Millennium 46’ seemed to indicate the earliest period and a reasonable tunnel to start with. Maya took a few running steps in her wet socks and let herself slide over the floor. Fun is fun.
She peered into the tunnel, straining her eyes, but couldn’t see any curve or endpoint in the distance. Like someone had shot a bullet through an endless marble mountain. Oval nooks had been dug into the rounded tunnel walls. Maya skated a little further into Millennium 46 and read the sign next to the first nook.

Maya looked inside the narrow alcove. The coal drawing on the displayed boulder couldn’t have taken more than ten seconds: a minimalist stick figure with a spear. Good effort, Ush.
Usually, early art might have interested her, but today she just kept walking and read the next sign.

This piece was missing, although Maya noticed a few crumbs and brown stains on the marble floor. The next few niches were all empty until there was another coal drawing: a cow or a horse, barely recognizable on the darkened stone. All the artists had elapsed. Cool stuff.
Maya decided that ‘Millennium 46’ didn’t provide enough variety to distract her from her gloomy thoughts. She walked back to the drinking fountain, remembering a Neanderthal documentary she had watched with her parents years ago. The usual consensus on TV nights was to watch a documentary with Maya serving as the swingweight between a nature program, pitched by her dad, and a culture program, pitched by her mom. When Chrissy had become old enough to vote, the situation had become more complicated, often requiring one sister to trade in additional house chores for the remote. Classic parent scam.
Maya crossed the hall, passed the puddle around the fish fountain, and aimed straight for ‘Millennium 58’, likely featuring the most recent pieces. The tunnel was identical to the first, except for a round, wooden wall marking its end after only a few nooks. She read the first sign.

Numerous times, Maya had asked her parents to visit more multimedia exhibitions, maybe by young artists rather than one of her mother’s painter friends. Eagerly, she stepped into Mel’s nook.
A high-definition image was projected onto the marble wall. The man in the video was middle-aged and wore a Detroit Red Wings jersey. His face was painted white, and, after a second of awkward staring, he began miming the ‘invisible wall’ with comical hand gestures. When he left the frame by descending the ‘imaginary stairs,’ Maya turned to go. No Electronica Prize for you, Mel.
She thought of all the visitors in the distant future who would see this uninspired performance and judge her entire generation for it—probably her entire millennium. She did some quick math to realize that Mel’s thrash video would be seen by millions of people, assuming that at least a thousand people per year had a near-death experience and all pieces were kept for a few millennia. Talk about undeserved exposure.
Maya entered the next nook, eager to prevent Mel’s video from being the last piece of art she saw before elapsing. 

	A single sheet of paper lay on an ornate pedestal. Big drops of ink were smeared across the paper, but the drawing was still recognizable. Maya smiled at the familiar scene: a house with a triangular roof—complete with the bulbous tree, the sun in the corner, and a three-person stick family holding hands. Classic.
Maya wiped at her nose. In kindergarten, she had drawn this exact same picture countless times. She had recently rediscovered her kindergarten creations when confiscating her paintings from her mother’s studio. For some reason, Maya’s eyes welled as she stared at Riko’s splotched drawing. This was a good last-ever piece of art. Nicely done, Riko.
Trying to remember her very first painting, Maya turned around and jumped at the sight of a tall, skinny man—a stretched-out shadow against the white marble. His phantom black turtleneck, although fully unrolled, did not reach his pointy chin, which rested thoughtfully on his spidery index fingers. He observed Maya with the friendly detachment of a high school art teacher.
“What the—” said Maya.
“Let’s…” said the man in a calm voice, “try to limit our swearing for now, Maya.” He gently laid his hands on his chest. “My name is Alamar, and I am the longstanding curator of the Auratus gallery.” His fingertips found each other in front of a golden necklace. “As relevant context, I can offer the following: Master Finn revived me many years ago after learning of my archival work at the Museion of Alexandria. Now, I support the artistic self-exploration of Master Finn’s residents and curate their ultimate creations in this gallery.”
	Alamar’s golden earrings and his belt buckle shimmered in the light.
	“Okay…” Maya said. “I’m just looking around so…no artistic exploration for me.”
	“I see that Riko’s work has afforded you some emotion.”
	“No, I—” Maya hastily wiped at her eyes. “I was just leaving, actually. Pretty dry air in your gallery.” 
	Alamar smiled. Defiantly, Maya held his soft gaze for a moment. Pretentious weirdo.
	“Nice accessories,” she said with an attempt at sass, although she really did like his golden jewelry.
	“Thank you, Maya,” Alamar replied with a short bow. “Please follow me, so I can provide you with a final opportunity to create, although Master Finn encourages me to call it Art-based Psychological Therapy.”
	These words rang a distant bell in Maya’s mind. She pictured some esoteric magazines that had appeared in her mother’s studio a few weeks ago.
	“What does that mean? You paint stuff, and people cry because it’s so bad?”
	“Optimally, you would be the one to create something, while I merely help you to reflect,” Alamar said and stepped away from the nook. “Now, we are only given a limited amount of time, so please let me guide you to the Auratus Workshop. You will find that we can accommodate artisanal techniques from any historical period or cultural sphere.”
	To Maya’s surprise, he didn’t lead her back to the drinking fountain but towards the wooden wall at the end of the tunnel. She hated the idea of spending her last moments in life following someone around, but if there was a decent workshop, she wanted to see it.
	“So for thousands of years, people have dumped stick figures into your gallery before keeling over?”
To her surprise, Alamar laughed quietly.
“I have been doing this work for a while, yes. In fact, artistic expression facilitated Master Finn’s very first reanimation, long before I arrived here. I assume that’s why he continues sending residents to the Auratus Workshop.”
	Arriving at the end of the tunnel, Alamar brought his face close to the round door and studied a shining plaque. Glue residue had run out from behind the metal and over the old wood.
	“Delightful,” Alamar said with raised eyebrows. “It appears that Master Finn went through the trouble of renaming my Auratus Workshop.” He smiled with barely concealed pain, and Maya came closer to read the words on the plaque.

Alamar sighed. 
“Well, this is not the first time that Master Finn has renamed my place of work. Now, Maya, would you be so kind as to follow me into the…Carl Gustav Jung Workshop?”
On command, the door rolled sideways into the wall. Behind, the light from the tunnel fell into pitch blackness. Maya felt the vastness of the space ahead of her. Far away, lights swayed in the darkness, luring her closer. Like anglerfish. 
On Alamar’s right side, a lamp flicked on, illuminating a row of shelves leading along the workshop’s outer wall and disappearing into the shadows. Alamar wandered along the first shelf, his hands brushing melancholy over the tightly stacked pencils whose weight bent the wooden racks.
“As you will see,” Alamar said, “the workshop holds all the materials and tools that residents might require for their self-realization.” 
Maya followed the long man to the next shelf, where another lamp came on, shining its light onto thousands of pens, some made from plastic, some made from what looked like ivory, some bundled in boxes, some displayed on individual holders. Countless ink containers occupied the higher racks, from small flasks to printer cartridges. Maya even spotted utensils for tattooing, including modern ink guns and traditional needles and mallets. Somewhat cool.
Alamar walked unnervingly slow, letting his eyes glide over the shelf like a retired athlete surveying his medal collection.
“I’m quite proud to say that the Workshop’s calligraphy section now surpasses the one in my former workshop in the Museion. Understandably, few residents dare to work with ink, but as you just saw in the gallery, young Riko was a recent exception.” 
“You should have given her some ink remover,” Maya said, remembering the smeared lines on Riko’s drawing. Alamar winced and turned around.
“Please rest assured that I will provide any tool that residents require to produce a piece of resonance.”
Behind them, the lamp above the first shelf extinguished. Alamar continued walking, and the next lamp switched on. Picks, hammers, and chainsaws hung in between four super-sized freezers humming monotonously. Maya picked up a blowtorch and dialed the small flame to the max. Fairly cool.
“Pretty random to put ice sculpting next to calligraphy.”
Alamar took the blowtorch out of her hand, switched it off, and placed it carefully back on the shelf.
“The order of the sections is chosen to help residents select the tool that will create the most profound experience. I always try to strike a balance between offering the right utensils as swiftly as possible while simultaneously satisfying the artist’s sense of discovery.” 
Maya scoffed but looked eagerly ahead. The wall had barely curved so far, suggesting that, if the shelves reached around the entire room, their number was gigantic. The next racks lit up while the lights behind them extinguished. Maya thought that, from the center of the workshop, they must look like a luminous caterpillar, slowly circling the room. She let her eyes run over the countless withering knives hung above piles of wood, varying from smooth, industrial cubes to bark-covered logs. Woodworking…somewhat less cool.
“There is no need to rush,” Alamar said as Maya passed him. “We are about to arrive at your shelf.” 
Maya stopped short.
“What do you mean–my shelf?”
Alamar smiled, his teeth outshining his jewelry.
“The shelf which contains the tools for your upcoming work.”
How dare this guy?
Maya stopped short next to an enormous handsaw. Even if she agreed to this random challenge, she would never let this guy pick her tools. Even during her painting sessions with her mom, Maya always enforced a strict ‘no helping’ policy.
“Do not worry,” Alamar said and walked past her. “Naturally, I respected your inclination towards oil painting. Most residents are too anxious for that medium, hastening towards faster-drying paints, fearing to elapse before finishing their work, but I assumed you would stick to your usual preferences.”
He gave Maya an inquisitive look and nodded at her astonished silence.
 “Further, I hope you will be glad to know that I spent a considerable part of last night pre-assembling your favorite colors: The red of Mike Tyson’s boxing gloves during his championship fight against Trevor Berbick, the green of the ostrich ferns growing in your father’s zoo, and the burnt orange serving as a recurring theme in your mother’s exhibitions.”
	What the…
With a gentle movement of his arm, Alamar invited Maya to follow him. Even from behind, she could tell that he was smiling. The next three lights flicked on simultaneously. Maya stopped short, staring at the contents of the reinforced shelves. Buckets of paint, cans of paint, tubes of paint. Going from heavy barrels at the bottom to individual packets at the top. Reaching from Musou Black in the very first column to Stark White in the last shelf. Brushes, knives, sponges, rollers, and lots of other tools were fixed to the back wall of the shelves. Enough glues, paints, and solvents to intoxicate the entire human race. This. Is. Very cool.
“Our painting section,” Alamar said. “The most comprehensive section of the Auratus workshop.”
“Carl Gustav Jung Workshop,” Maya corrected him absent-mindedly. She unhooked a flat brush from its nail. The handle felt smooth, but not slippery. She ran the bristles over the palm of her hand. No paint residues. Natural amount of stiffness. She tucked at the bristles with some effort, but none came loose. Alamar looked at her with quiet satisfaction.
“So where are my colors then?” Maya asked. She held her new brush like a dagger, staring at Alamar in open confrontation. “And if you’re forcing me to paint, shouldn’t you provide an easel? And a canvas? Or am I supposed to paint on your turtleneck?” 
“It has all been arranged for you,” Alamar said, signaling to the islands of light in the middle of the workshop. 
***
Maya staggered through the darkness, struggling to hold on to all the brushes, sponges, and wipes. When she finally dropped a palette knife, she allowed Alamar to pick it up and carry it for her.
The distant lights turned out to be individual workstations. Underneath each spotlight stood an easel, a stool, and a small workbench. Some stations were occupied by people in hospital gowns. Maya quickly found one that was isolated in the darkness, far off to the side to prevent anyone from spying on her work. Time for you to take off, Alamar.
Despite her reluctance to participate in this challenge, Maya thought that elapsing while painting would be an excellent way to go—right in the middle of her final masterpiece. Epic. 
She would drag out the process as long as needed, kind of like her mom’s private students, who all shared the great talent of delaying Maya’s dinner. But unlike those students, she would actually paint, rather than sit in front of the canvas and complain about work or family. 
Maya dumped her brushes onto the workbench and started arranging them according to shape, size, and bristle material. She kept her shoulder turned to Alamar as a clear signal that his help was no longer needed. He cleared his throat.
“Some residents find it insightful to hear about previous residents who managed to awaken during their work. I don’t think I am being overly self-indulgent when I say that I have accrued some minimal experience over the millennia regarding the ways of scrutinizing one’s inner life through art.”
“Very cool,” Maya said. “But I work alone.”
“I thought as much,” Alamar said with a sad smile. “If I can be of any assistance–any assistance at all–please alert me via this bell and I will hurry to your side.” He placed a small brass bell on the workbench next to Maya’s brushes. She picked it up and put it on the floor.
Alamar retreated to the margin of her station’s spotlight and gave a small bow. “I wish you the very best, Maya. The Auratus workshop–” pain flickered through his features. “The Carl Gustav Jung workshop is proud to host you.”
He disappeared into the darkness. Maya finished sorting her brushes, sat down on the stool, propped her chin up, and stared at the blank canvas. For a second, she wondered whether anyone had ever been in a stranger situation. But then the surrounding spotlights reminded her of the generations of people who went through this place, all of them searching their brains for a spark of inspiration—a profound insight that would transport them back to Earth. This is why the Auratus Gallery sucks. All the pieces are rushed. Everything was made with fear.
Maya decided to just draw something pretty. ‘Going deep’ on command was a recipe for making pretentious trash. That much she had learned from her mom. The more profound the intention, the more derivative the result.
Chrissy had always copied their mom’s style, painting pretty shapes without any meaning, but Maya had never cared for that. Back in the day—until about a month ago—her favorite motifs had been animals and nature scenes, but she couldn’t do that now. Alamar and Finn would think that she was trying to ‘process the incident in the zoo’. 
 She inspected the colors that Alamar had pre-mixed on the wooden palette. He had done a decent job. The green looked exactly like her dad’s ferns, and even her mom couldn’t have replicated her burnt orange better than this. Maya thought back to Riko’s house-with-family scene. Maybe she could paint her own version of it. She could use the green for the tree and replace the blue sky with an orange evening glow. A harmless shoutout to a classic.
She swiped up a bit of the orange paint with her finger, and it fell onto her pajama pants. Shit. 
Her parents always accused her of being careless. During painting sessions in the attic, her mom always rolled out a plastic tarp on the studio floor. Maya crouched down and tried to squeeze the paint out of her pajamas. It only pressed the paint further into the threads.
She grabbed a paper towel and dabbed away at the stain. It stood out clearly from the red pants. She breathed heavily and felt angry tears in her eyes. Why am I stupid? Why am I useless?
“My apologies for the delay, Maya,” Alamar said, breathing heavily. “Here is the gesso that you requested.”
He held up a small bottle of white liquid. Maya was sure she hadn’t requested anything, and she never used gesso to prepare her canvases. Chrissy and her mom had always spent half their time lathering on that boring stuff while Maya was already deep into painting. Afraid that her voice would crack, she just waved at the workbench, keeping her back to Alamar. He placed the little tube next to her brushes.
“I don’t say this often,” he started, “but as part of my preparation, I reviewed your artistry on Earth. I was very impressed by the monkey painting you submitted to the school competition last year. A very deserved win.”
Maya swallowed heavily. She had worked on that painting for a full week. It hadn’t been terrible.
“Apes. Not monkeys,” she said quietly.
“Ah, yes,” Alamar said. “I apologize. Zoology was never my strong suit, I’m afraid. But my favorite painting of yours is the family portrait you created last week.”
Maya slowly fixed her eyes on Alamar, her fingers finding the palette knife. Careful now.  
Alamar bowed and stepped back. 
“Anyway, I will leave you to it. If you need any materials—anything at all—
He pointed at the discarded bell under the workbench. Maya slowly moved her jaw from left to right. Alamar came forward again.
“Just know that I have accompanied thousands of artists struggling with guilt, shame, family issues—“
The palette knife went flying through the air. The tall man ducked and apologized, lifting his skinny arms into the air. Maya grabbed the tube of gesso and threw it at him as well. It left a satisfying stain on his turtleneck. Alamar apologized and fled into the darkness. Maya turned to the canvas, steaming. I will give you a nice piece for your gallery.
The palette with Alamar’s pre-mixed colors went clattering to the floor. Maya’s hand shook as she started blending. She forced herself to work slowly, carefully selecting the right colors for the job. She was almost sure that caricatures employed fewer colors than regular portraits. Black, white, and gold should suffice. Maya glanced over her shoulder to see whether Alamar was still lurking close by. Once he would see himself on her canvas, he would stop intruding on people who clearly want to be left alone.
Maya dove deep into her flow state, slinging pencils, brushes, and knives as if her brain was on autopilot. She forgot about the danger of elapsing, and soon her pajamas were covered in black and golden smears, and the floor was covered in grimy paper towels. She wasn’t very practiced in caricature, especially without a reference. How hard can it be…the guy looks ridiculous.
Twice, she rang the bell, pretending to need some additional tool or color. Whenever Alamar appeared, Maya made sure to block his view of her canvas. While they talked, she carefully studied his hollow cheekbones, his pointy chin, and the wrinkly skin around his eyes. She noted the long limbs and the shining forehead. You’ll enjoy this for a few millennia.
She wasn’t too happy with her initial outline, but the wet paint allowed her to correct her wrongs and softly blend the black turtleneck into the dark background. Soon, the golden light radiated from Alamar’s teeth, his jewelry, and his bald head. His comically elongated chin almost touched the bottom of the canvas, and a speech bubble said, ‘I’m a failed artist. Can I be a therapist, now?’ 
Should be explicit enough.
Wondering how many hours had passed, Maya took a step back. Not a bad painting, actually. 
She looked around and found all the other stations abandoned. Has everyone left, or elapsed?
She rang the bell. Within seconds, Alamar’s footsteps sounded in the darkness. Maya proudly stepped beside her painting and crossed her arms behind her back. There was a good chance that Alamar would be offended, but he would surely recognize the level of detail, the way she had captured the gallery light and his overly composed expression, despite working without a reference and only three colors. She was ready for outrage or admiration; either reaction was welcome.
Alamar appeared in the circle of light and saw the painting. He pursed his lips…but neither in shock nor jealousy. This was…pity.
“Oh, Maya…”
Oh, Maya, what?
He touched his temple and regarded her with soft eyes.
“Oh, Maya. I’m so sorry.”
“What are you talking about?” Maya asked through her teeth.
Alamar wiped his face and brushed his hands over his chest while reinspecting the painting.
“My clumsy intrusions robbed you of your chance to reflect.” He came closer and Maya stepped backwards. “How can you awaken if your emotions focus on me?”
“Got it,” Maya said, “anything to say about my technique?”
Alamar kept his back turned to the painting. 
“I thought your anger could be a catalyst, but instead you turned it into this…piece of…humor.” Was he about to say ‘piece of shit’?
Alamar shook his head.
“I usually don’t allow for second attempts, but in this case, your failure is clearly my fault. In the Auratus…the Carl Gustav Jung Workshop…we strive to produce pieces that capture the artist’s deepest pain, not a momentary distraction.”
What a pretentious bastard.
“Oh, this painting captures my deepest pain,” Maya growled at him. 
She shouldered the skinny man aside, ripped the canvas from the easel, and started walking in the direction of the tunnel. She felt the fresh paint smear under her thumb. Gloomy memories of her last painting session returned to her as she hurried through the darkness. A few days ago, she had painted her entire family doing silly poses in the living room, a simple copy of one of her dad’s refrigerator photos. Her mother had entered the studio without knocking and teared up at the sight of Maya’s work. The result had been the splattered line of green paint on the attic floor. Why do I keep showing my paintings to people?
Finally, Alamar’s steps sounded behind her.
“Maya, please wait!”
His voice was labored. Clearly, he was not used to running. Maya sped up, and the sound of Alamar’s long legs faded behind her. She reached the brightly lit marble tunnel. Somehow, a new niche had been created between the round door and the nook with Riko’s ink drawing. The new sign read:

An empty easel waited for her contribution. Alamar panted heavily as he caught up. 
“Maya,” he said, catching his breath. “Can we please reflect on your work before you submit it?” His expression was pleading. “Your technique is advanced—I’m sorry that I didn’t say it—but that’s not–”
Maya scoffed. Enough.
“How about this technique?”
She swung her canvas over her head and smashed it down, impaling Alamar’s caricature on the easel. The three wooden legs smacked together, and the whole setup went crashing to the floor. Droplets of paint landed on Maya’s face and forearms. 
“Maya, your artistry goes beyond—”
Alamar’s voice faded as he came closer. Maya’s eyesight became misbalanced—like her surroundings had been a reflection in a puddle, suddenly disturbed by a raindrop. Am I elapsing?
“–with honesty and authenticity, because–”
Alamar’s words vanished behind the crescendo of falling water. The tunnel’s ceiling liquified and dropped on top of them. For a moment, the swirling masses enveloped everything, and then smoothed out as a shimmering surface at Maya’s feet. The smell of warm plants filled the air, and she heard the swaying of branches. Instead of a marble floor, there was murky water sprinkled with cherry blossoms. She was back at the pond.

14
Finn tapped his clipboard onto Claudio’s desk.
“Are you following me so far?”
Claudio looked over to Helena’s desk. She still listened to Finn’s explanation of the experiment. The blurry time delay between them swirled against the borderless white surroundings.

[One explanation for the subject’s confusion is the decrease of oxygen in his brain. Not unusual among my residents, but I expected Professor Hartmann to monitor the subject’s vital signs more carefully. Hopefully it is just a neurocognitive disorder.]

“I’m sorry,” Claudio said and rubbed his temples. His headaches pulsated steadily. “Just to make sure I understood correctly, I have to click one of these switches.” He pointed at the apparatus in front of him.
“Correct,” Finn said. “You select a power level from one to five, to be precise.”
“…and so does Helena,” Claudio finished his thought.
Finn nodded excitedly.
“There are five rounds,” Claudio continued, “so we can only select each power level once.”
“That is correct,” Finn said.
“Okay.” Claudio tried to think of more questions to delay the challenge.
“Great,” Finn said, “so like I said, this challenge was inspired by the famous Milgram experiments, which were actually ethically questionable.” He bounced his eyebrows as if sharing some hot gossip.
“In the original experiment, the participants were told they had to use the buttons to administer dangerous, electrical shocks to someone in another room. They could even hear them scream whenever they flipped a switch, to be precise. This way, Dr. Milgram found out that humans obey the instructions of authority figures in lab coats, even if they have to electrocute someone.” Finn paused as if waiting for a reaction from Claudio. “That is why I always wear the lab coat. And look, I added this yesterday–” Finn pointed at his name tag, and Claudio could see that the boy had added a doctor title before his name. “It gives extra authority.”
Helena squirmed and appeared to say something, but nothing was audible. Finn’s silencing spell was still active. The boy started wandering in a circle around Claudio and Helena, which resulted in confusing delays and overlaps in his speech whenever he crossed the time barrier. 
“Many non-psychologists believe that the Milgram experiment demonstrated the power of authority, but experts know that it was all about explaining the reason for the holocaust. People can be convinced to do horrible things by an authority…” He stood still and scratched his chin. “Anyway, today we will do a better version of the Milgram experiment. We still use electric shocks, of course, but the experiment is no longer about authority, to be precise. Now, it is about perspective-taking and nonverbal communication.” He nodded at Claudio. “...which you are bad at.”
Finn pointed at the machine on Claudio’s desk. 
“If you flip down switch number five, there are five hundred milliamps of electricity shot towards Helena’s body. If she also clicks number five, there is an equal amount of electricity shot towards you. In the middle, right here–” He waved his arms around the invisible time barrier, the arm on Helena’s side lagging behind, “–the level-five shocks will be subtracted from each other in a scientific way. Five minus five is zero, of course, according to mathematical psychology, so nobody would get shocked.”
Claudio swallowed. “And if we don’t click the same button?”
“I am getting there, Claudio, of course. I am actually in the middle of my participant briefing during which I explain the challenge procedure,” Finn said with a tinge of anger. “But to be precise, if you select switch number five and Helena clicks number four, there would be a difference of one, of course, and because Helena clicked the lower number, she would receive a shock of one hundred milliamps.”
Claudio had no idea how severe a shock of one hundred milliamps would be, but after a short delay, Helena’s eyes widened, and the veins in her throat protruded. 
“Oh,” Finn said, studying the papers, “and you win the challenge if you both survive all five rounds. It is a collaboration challenge after all.” 
Helena waved to get Claudio’s attention and then made a tilted slash gesture with her hand. Finn saw her, and out of nowhere, Claudio’s hands were trapped in shackles and bolted to the table. Claudio’s fingers rested on the five switches and frantically pulled them as far back as the shackles would allow. Helena’s hands had also disappeared behind her machine. Finn punched his thigh furiously.
“No more tricking! This challenge is supposed to be about nonverbal communication, not explicit communication, although those can overlap.” He studied his clipboard and stabbed his finger at the paper. “You are only allowed to think what the other person thinks, but you cannot say what you think, of course. Otherwise, there would be no psychology in this challenge.”
The boy spun around, his features instantly transforming into Claudio’s mirror image.
“Do you know what she tried to tell you?” Finn asked in Claudio’s voice. “Do you know in which order she will press her switches?” 
The terrible truth was that Claudio had seen Helena’s intention of specifying an order—from lowest to highest or the other way around—but he wasn’t sure in which direction her hand had cut. However, he could still talk…
“Helena,” he shouted, “I think it’s best if we start with level one. It seems a bit safer than to start—”
Finn leaned forward and made a grabbing motion across the time barrier. Claudio waited for a reaction from Helena, but his words never seemed to reach her. He tried again, but now his mouth only expelled silent bursts of air. 
Helena started mouthing a single word, but before Claudio could recognize the word, Finn stepped in front of his desk to block his view. The blonde boy stomped his feet onto the white ground.

[Both subjects are misbehaving. A consistent observation for Helena, but more evidence that Claudio is experiencing brain problems.]

Finn growled something, and Claudio felt a tight sensation around his mouth. He looked down and pulled his lips apart, but none of the muscles in his face responded. When he saw Helena, he understood. In between her nose and her chin, there was nothing, just a flat skin area. Finn had removed both of their mouths.
Out of shock, Claudio instantly choked on his saliva. Silent coughs shot up his windpipe and blew up his cheeks. He teared up and struggled to breathe through his nose. Headaches were drilling into his skull. Finn’s eyes gleamed red as he smoothed his lab coat. His fingers seemed longer and pointier than before and his voice trembled. 
“Well, you probably think that I am losing control over my lab setup, but every psychologist knows how difficult it is to observe pure perspective-taking in the lab.” He cleared his throat. “This whole challenge, and every version of Reanimation Island, is designed so that residents face their problems and work on their shortcomings.” He wiped the sleeve of his lab coat over his face, and his voice cracked. “But if you keep tricking me, just to avoid electrocution, neither of you will awaken.”
Listening to the boy, Claudio felt a strange mix of terror and pity. It was just like Helena had told him when they did the dishes together yesterday: Finn clearly meant well, but was about to kill them anyway. When Claudio tried to mumble something behind his skin-mouth, Finn shook his head.
“No more talking. It is time to start.” 
The boy lifted his hand, and the horizontal search bar on Claudio’s machine lit up from left to right. 
“Please select an electricity level for shocking the other participant. Remember, you can select each level once.”
Claudio tried to think of a way out. From the other side, Helena tried to make eye contact with him. He held her gaze. She leaned back in her seat and shook her head, only slightly to avoid alerting Finn. Claudio understood, gave a minuscule nod, and leaned back as well. 
If he still had a mouth, Claudio would have smiled. He was sure that Helena had just figured out the real purpose of this challenge—to withstand Finn’s emotional manipulation and not press any button. Now that he thought about it, this entire challenge made sense. He was aware of his lifelong problem of being a pushover. That was what Finn was trying to address with this challenge. Claudio wondered how the boy had diagnosed him with this problem so quickly. Did he know about the number of girls who had flirted free cake out of him when he was younger? Had Helena and Finn reviewed the countless shifts he had taken over for his colleagues? Either way, he would not press any button. He would show Finn that he could stand his ground.
Finn looked back and forth between them and frowned. Then, he started sifting through his papers again, scattering them around on the white floor. Claudio wondered whether Helena had the same problematic tendencies as he. Did she also do everything to make other people comfortable? Did she follow instructions from her bosses regardless of how overbearing they were? So far, she seemed like the exact opposite of someone with such problems, but then again, she seemed to constantly help out with other people’s challenges.
Any second now, the announcement would come that they had won the challenge. Finn, still on his knees and holding a jumble of papers, looked up at Claudio’s apparatus and mumbled something. 
Beep.
Claudio flinched at the sound coming from his machine. Was it shutting down? On the other side of the time barrier, wrinkles appeared between Helena’s eyes, and she stared down at her apparatus.
Beep. Beep.
Beep. Beep. Beep.
A countdown. There was a time limit, but what would happen at the end of it? 
“At the end of it,” Finn said, sporting Claudio’s sweaty eyebrows, “a power level will be selected at random. I had forgotten that part. It forces you to engage in perspective-taking, as well as nonverbal, meaning telepathic, communication.” 
Helena stared down at her switches, no longer facing Claudio. Her hands were bolted down on the table so that he couldn’t see her fingers. She looked up, and now there was no defiance in her eyes. Her look was…apologetic. 
She brought her shoulder forward and her head down, emphasizing that she was now pushing a button. A lamp on her machine lit up. Claudio gave a muffled squeal. The buzzing of his apparatus grew, and the antenna shivered. Helena had selected a power level, but which one?
In her hasty barrage of instructions, she had told him to go from ‘low to high.' Or had it been ‘high to low?’ Why would anyone start with level five? It was too risky. Unless you wanted to ensure your own survival. 
Below the buzzing of the machines, the beeping sound sped up. Claudio’s knee rattled up and down so quickly that it hit the underside of the desk. His apparatus lurched, lightly pressing switch number four against Claudio’s fingertips. He screamed voicelessly, pulling his fingers back. His hands cramped up, and sweat dropped from his chin. Finn shouted something over the violent buzzing and the escalating beeps.
Helena had begun her instructions with: ‘Listen, we save ourselves first.' If she had stuck to this rule, she would have selected switch number five–maximum shock.
Once more, Claudio hesitated. She had bandaged his thumb. She had messed up her entry to the dinner competition to ensure Riko would win. Certainly, she hadn’t pressed switch number five. But was he willing to bet his own life on it? Helena’s wild eyes and jerking head movements urged him to press a button. What did this frantic behavior mean? Guilt? Or fear? Claudio remembered that she had kind of misled him before, about having baked a mint pie. Or had his mistaken theory actually impressed her?
Claudio breathed in. None of it mattered. He would never select anything but the lowest level. He lifted his finger.
Beeeeeeeeep.
There was resistance on the switch. Claudio couldn’t press it down. He had run out of time. He looked over to Finn, who looked equally confused.
The switches on Claudio’s machine rattled up and down in random order until switch number three clicked down. The lamp on top of his machine lit up. The decision had been made for him. 
Slowly, Claudio looked up at Helena. Her eyes widened in confusion, asking him, begging him for any insight. Her panicked expression made Claudio’s stomach slump deep into his belly. Both volume bars decoupled from the machines and hovered upwards. Helena mumble-screamed as she saw Claudio’s half-filled bar. Her bar was almost empty.
The electric humming of Claudio’s machine stopped, but the buzzing on Helena’s side intensified—deadly power ramping up—like a starting helicopter. Helena leaned away from the shaking antenna, but the shackles kept her in the line of fire. Claudio was frozen, unable to think or do anything. Had he just killed a person? Helena’s hair lifted slowly from her head.
A sharp popping sound slapped Claudio’s eardrums. Helena’s body jolted, pushing the chair out from under her. She dropped under the table, out of sight. A soundless scream erupted in Claudio’s lungs, painfully echoing up and down his throat.
Finn hurried over to Helena’s side, reappeared behind the time barrier, and lifted her back up onto the chair. Helena’s hands were still trapped in the braces on the table. Her eyes were open, erratically searching the white surroundings. The lower part of her face was red—blood gushing from her nose. Had she hurt herself in the fall, or were there internal injuries? 
Claudio felt dizzy—his heart pumped all the blood into his head, threatening to burst his skull. Helena seemed to ignore Finn’s feverish whispers, her wide eyes finding Claudio’s. He realized that she assumed he had pressed switch three on purpose. Claudio shook his head, desperately shouting explanations that came out as unintelligible mumbles.
Beep.
With Finn’s help, Helena managed to sit up straight. The muscles around her shoulders shook and twitched. She looked down at her machine as the floating volume bar settled on her apparatus again. A light came on. This time, she had made her choice quickly.
On Claudio’s box, the third switch remained pressed down. Without further hesitation, he flipped down switch number one. He wouldn’t make the same mistake again.
The buzzing started, but now it came from his box. Claudio realized that Helena had likely selected switch number five. It was only fair. Self-protection. In fact, Claudio registered that Helena must have selected a higher level than him. She couldn’t have picked number one again, which meant he would definitely get shocked this time.
Claudio took one more breath and tried to make eye contact with Helena, but she kept her eyes shut and her jaw muscles tensed. Likely, she wanted to avoid the sight of what would happen to him. The power bars floated upwards again. Claudio’s eyes grew wide. Helena’s bar wasn’t full…it was almost as empty as his. She had selected power level two—sticking to her original strategy, ‘low to high.’ The cheekbones rose on Helena’s blood-smeared face–a mouthless smile.
Claudio tried to smile back when the shock hit him, making all his muscles flex at once. Like Helena, he dropped to the ground, ripping the entire table down with him. His ears were ringing and his headaches—instead of puckering rhythmically—screeched continuously. This was one hundred milliamps?
Claudio could taste metal, and the white space around him fluctuated through stages of gray. Behind his eyes, a metal shard seemed to burn away his brain cells. But it didn’t matter, because Helena had trusted him. With the help of Finn, he got on his knees and put the table upright.
Beep.
Without hesitation, Claudio flipped down switch number two. He realized that the lowest number available to Helena was now level three. Again, she was forced to shock him. 
His headaches pressed one of his eyes shut. Helena appeared to look at him with concern, but maybe that was just wishful thinking. Sharp things seemed to pulsate into his brain with every thought. Claudio wasn’t sure whether his body could withstand another shock. The anticipation was too much, and his surroundings became unsharp. He felt tired and let his chin sink on his chest. The electrical buzzing drowned out his thoughts, and when the shock hit him, the world switched off.

[One of my best challenges yet! Perspective taking, nonverbal communication, Milgram experiment, and electroshock therapy combined into one! Although some psychologists say that combining therapies is a bad idea. Maybe that is why the subject is still here.]

15
Maya sat down and watched the waves drag out the sand from under her toes. In the distance, the ocean refused to dip below the horizon, stretching further and further until water and sky blended into a beige veil. She rubbed some wet sand between her fingers, thinking back to Alamar’s face when he had seen her finished painting. It was the default face of any adult she had encountered lately, and now it had followed her into the afterlife. 
How long does it take to ‘elapse’?
Maya scanned the left side of the beach. Eager waves washed far ashore, chasing seagulls from the lemon-colored sand. On her right, the sea was calmer. Thick fog hovered over the black boulders—a gray passage into nothingness. Thirty seconds of courage.
Maya got up and spotted the orange cat approaching from her right, hissing and baring her teeth. Uma.
“Just leave me alone,” Maya said. She felt tired, as if the cold ocean water had sipped away her life force. “I don’t want to fight.”
Maya walked towards the cat. Uma yowled and arched her back, dancing threateningly across the volcanic stones.
“Why can’t you leave me alone?” Maya screamed and swung far right towards the trees. Uma zipped sideways and blocked Maya’s way again, growling menacingly. Exhausted, Maya whined, closed her eyes, and sprinted forward. The cat was on her instantly, piercing her claws through Maya’s pajamas and digging them into her leg.
“Leave me!” Maya screamed, still running forwards. She tried to grab Uma, who climbed towards her shoulder and met Maya’s hand with razor-sharp teeth and burning claws. Maya briefly fell to her knees, causing the cat to jump off her back. Through her tears, Maya could see the fog drifting across the sand ahead. She jumped up and started running again, the cat close on her heels. I said…
“Leave me!” Maya whirled around and kicked out towards Uma in the same instant that the cat lunged at her. Her chin struck the small animal's body with full force, and Uma fell to the sand, meowing in pain.
 “That’s what you get,” Maya said, shocked at herself. She had never hurt an animal in her life. I’m a piece of shit.
Uma limped after Maya, one of her front paws hanging in the air. Maya turned and ran further down the beach. She tried to block Uma’s desperate meowing by holding her ears shut. She slipped and cracked her big toe on a boulder. Tears and snot were running into her mouth. How far?
The air got colder. The sound of the wind and waves faded away. Ahead, she could see the outline of someone lying on the stone.
“I will fight you too, Koko,” Maya mumbled, feeling light-headed. She knew that she couldn’t win a fight against the orangutan, but Koko was a softie. Easily scared. “I don’t care if I hurt you, Koko. I don’t care.”
The thing lay flat on its back, with all limbs stretched out. Claudio?
The big man’s eyes were open but motionless. Dried blood was smeared around his nose and mouth. He was wearing a suit and a colorful pocket square. Reluctantly, Maya stopped next to his body. She looked past him towards the gray, frozen water. I don’t need to help you. I’m not responsible for this.
Next to Claudio lay a small orange gadget with a cord. It was labeled: ‘Scientific Defibrillator.’
Maya moaned and nudged Claudio with her bare feet. Clearly, this was some sort of setup. She considered leaving him here and just continuing on her way, but some words came to her mind that she had learned at the police station. Manslaughter by gross negligence.
She crouched down next to the defibrillator, picked up the two pads, and read the instructions written in chalk onto the black stone.
“Take the two electrodes and hold them to the subject’s body. The physical details are not important, but while you shock him, you have to say, I AM SAVING YOU BECAUSE I AM A GOOD PERSON.” 
That stupid…
Maya crouched over Claudio’s body. What are the odds that you’re in on this trick?
She briefly acknowledged that she stood in the same puddle of seawater as Claudio’s body, which might be problematic when administering electric shocks. What does it matter?
She pressed the electrodes to Claudio’s chest. Nothing happened. She lifted his pajamas and pressed the electrodes to his big belly…again, nothing happened.
“My god,” Maya cursed, and closed her eyes. She took a deep breath and laid the pads back on Claudio’s suit jacket. “I am saving you because I am a good person.”
Claudio’s body convulsed. His eyes fluttered, and he made a sound like a startled sloth. He shot up, hitting his forehead against Maya’s. She fell backwards onto the stones.
“Where am I?” Claudio asked. “Did they kill me?”
“I don’t know,” Maya said, and flung away the defibrillator.
“Are you an angel?” Claudio asked, looking at her as if he had never seen her.
“No,” Maya said and frowned. Not yet anyway…
“Congratulations,” shouted an entirely unwelcome voice. “Wow, you just saved a person’s life. You must feel great about yourself and your morals, to be precise.”
Maya turned away from the onrushing boy. Claudio sat upright.
“Oh, look at your eyes,” he said to the boy in the lab coat. “I’ve never met someone with eyes like that.”
Finn looked at Claudio, confused.
“Short-term and potentially long-term memory loss, but I can deal with that later.” He ran up to Maya. “How do you feel? Alamar told me that you are ashamed of causing your sister’s death, but now you are even.” The boy waved his arms from left to right in front of Maya’s face. “You killed someone, then you saved someone…no more shame.” 
Maya fell to her knees, too tired for another fight. The boy leaned over her.
“You should awaken any second, according to my hypothesis.”
Sure…
Claudio struggled to his knees and crawled over to them.
“I can tell that you’re an angel,” he said to the boy. “Are we in heaven?”
Finn breathed out through his nose.
“Claudio, please stop distracting Maya with your symptoms of vascular dementia. Professor Hartmann sent you last night. Even if she does not monitor your body, your dementia should not start until tomorrow.”
Claudio looked confused. He licked his lips and touched his mouth, likely noticing the blood on his face. Poor guy.
“Are we in hell?”
“Yes,” Maya said quietly. “Yes, we are.”
“No,” Finn shouted. “No, you are not. I cannot believe I have to use the roller coaster on you two. After I already explained everything.”
He clapped his hands, the stones under Maya disappeared, and she fell.

16
Claudio cheered as the minecart barreled into the darkness and hit a curve. The metal wheels screeched, and his head almost hit the cave wall. Who would have thought that heaven had an old-timey roller coaster? He clasped his fingers around the rim of the cart and laughed at the girl standing next to him in the tub. She screamed something, but the wind robbed Claudio of his hearing. The girl was called Maya. For some reason, he knew this.
“Your clothes are in the dryer, and I changed the sheets in our room,” he yelled, surprised by his own words. The girl gripped tightly to the cart, staring into the darkness ahead.

[The subject still has memories of the girl, but not of me. It might be related to his autobiographical memory, or his episodic memory, or his long-term memory, or his semantic memory.]

The outside light faded behind them, leaving them in a blind blender of sudden jerks and Claudio’s excited shouting. He could feel the girl ducking behind the protective shell of the cart. The impact of each crossbeam grew to a continuous whirring that made Claudio’s teeth rattle.
“How long is this ride?” he shouted towards Maya, but again, she didn’t hear him.
Out of the black void, a single page of paper came fluttering their way. It was swept up by the cart and pinned against its front wall. Claudio grasped the smoldering parchment and held it close to his face. It was a picture of a man sitting cross-legged over the ornate title:
“The Tibetan Book of The Dead”
Should there be burning papers inside a roller coaster? Claudio clenched his jaw and looked ahead. A faint orange glow illuminated the tunnel. A distorted voice blared from the ceiling, like in a subway, and Claudio ducked instinctively.
“…roller coaster…explain to humans...religious writings…” 
Claudio recognized the voice of the pale boy from the beach, but couldn’t make out full sentences over the hammering echo from the walls. Maya was sitting with her back against the cart’s inner wall, holding her hands over her ears. 
“They should have seatbelts, right?” Claudio shouted at her.
He risked a glance over the metal rim. Another burning paper hit him in the face. He cried out, wiped it away, and it was sucked into the tunnel behind. Ahead, the orange glow flickered across the ragged stone walls. The cart hurtled around another curve. Thousands of books and loose papers were piled up around the tracks, and the cart shredded through them, whirling up the pages like a snowplow. Claudio ducked back into the wobbling cart, wondering whether one could get hurt in heaven.
“It’s a little scary, but I’m sure we’ll be fine,” he screamed over to Maya, who kept her head down and her eyes closed, looking more annoyed than scared.
The orange light pierced through the clouds of pages above them, throwing dancing shadows onto the walls. It was getting warmer. The next curve was tight, and Claudio involuntarily squished Maya against the side of the cart. He apologized profusely, spotting burning papers flying past them like medieval projectiles. 
“Watch out!”
He held his arms over the girl’s head, afraid one of the papers would get entangled in her hair.
“…book burning…very common…” the boy’s voice announced through the roaring noise.  
Claudio smelled smoke. Dark clouds interleaved the flaming pages above them, like a turbulent night sky filled with meteorites. He coughed and hastily shoveled a few smoldering papers from Maya’s legs and over the side of the cart.
They hit another curve, causing Maya to roll over to his side. A blanket of fire descended on the cart. Papers brushed over Claudio’s head and tumbled over their clothes as the firestorm engulfed them. He felt like his body was trying to shed its skin to escape the heat. He thought they were plunging into hell and would burn in this tunnel for eternity.
He grabbed Maya by her pajamas, pushed her tightly into a corner of the cart, and tried to shield her with his back. She screamed something, but it blended with the rattling of the cart, the flapping of the flames, and the boy’s disembodied voice.
Black smoke and blinding yellow lights whirred around Claudio’s face. He coughed and wheezed. There was no air in the tunnel. The blistering heat choked down his screams, and he could feel flames licking at his calves.
“Stop—” Claudio’s words cut out in another coughing fit. Sweat and tears swam over his face as he risked a glance at the girl below. She was coughing…still alive. Burning pages piled up on his legs, and he weakly patted one hand on them to put out the flames. His vision started to fade. Through the smoke and the noise, Finn’s high-pitched yelling sounded like a pressure cooker releasing air. Claudio tried to reply, but his lungs spasmed in a fight between coughing and sucking in more smoke. Another curve made him roll off Maya. With a screaming effort, he tried to cover her body again.

[Protective behavior…finally, a successful prediction of the subject’s behavior.]

The source of heat, perceptible even through the thick walls of the cart, whooshed by. The smoke and burning pages relented, leaving them in the dark once more. The cart silently swished through the tunnel. Semi-conscious, Claudio noticed that Maya was fanning him with a magazine with a big cross on the cover. The rattling of the crossbeams slowed as if they were on an incline.
Claudio’s other senses returned, and he could hear the angel boy’s announcements. “I am very sorry, Claudio. There was too much fire, right? Or maybe too much paper?”
Claudio steadied his shoulder against the cart wall. 
“Are you okay?” he wheezed at Maya, struggling to clear his airways. His heart cut out randomly as if retiring and restarting after every beat. The girl looked down at him with concern.
“I’m better than you.” 
Claudio didn’t dare look at his legs. They stung like they had been peeled.
“I am very sorry,” the boy’s voice repeated, and Claudio saw little speakers mounted to the tunnel ceiling. “I have not used the anti-religion coaster in a while. Too many books have stacked up.”
Claudio’s pajamas were soaked in sweat, and he started to shiver. His vision still lagged, but daylight seemed to enter the tunnel from ahead. He wiped his mouth, trying to keep his breathing shallow to avoid another coughing fit.
“Why—” Claudio started and coughed.
“What the fuck, Finn?” the girl screamed towards the ceiling, and despite the pain, Claudio squirmed at her choice of words. “You almost killed him.”
The boy stayed silent, but Claudio could hear him breathing through the speaker system.
“Well, both of you referred to my Reanimation Island as ‘heaven’ and ‘hell’, respectively. It is a common mistake among residents. Burning religious books shows humans that this is a place of science, not religion.” 
The girl’s eyes wandered over Claudio’s legs, and her anger was replaced by shock.
“Oh, shit. You’re hurt.”
Claudio lifted his head and squinted towards his calves.
The suit pants were partially melted into his skin. Wherever they were missing entirely, his skin was forming pale patterns around large blisters. He let his head fall back against the metal, afraid his heart would give out. The boy’s voice returned.
“Many new arrivals think they are in paradise, nirvana, hell, or any other religious place, which distracts them from their personal development. That is why the anti-religion coaster is important.”

[Maya should have awoken here. The subject clearly exhibited signs of paternal protectiveness and appreciation towards Maya, and Alamar said she needs this. But then again, he is an art curator…not a psychologist. I should not have listened to him, to be precise.]
17
Helena bandaged Claudio’s legs, told Maya to watch over him, and left their room. She checked her watch and jogged down the corridor. She could feel the rhythmic tension in her legs. The soft impacts of her sneakers. Her arms brushing by her sides. She held her breath and listened to her heartbeat. Two stapled papers lay on the floor. Helena glanced at the titles:
“Paper 3: A typology of near-death experiences”
“Paper 12: The meaning of survival: The early aftermath of a near-death experience”
Sunlight flashed through the branches, through the glass, and into Helena’s eyes. The linoleum squeaked under her feet. Finn had stuck more papers to the wall between the doors.
“Paper 320: Understanding the will to live in patients nearing death”
She continued holding her breath. Blood pulsed forcefully through her torso, trying to distribute the dwindling oxygen. Arriving at her room, she allowed fresh air into her lungs. She steadied herself on her bench as her eyesight dimmed. Her hands were cold. The dehydration kept her heartbeat high. 
Helena squeezed a package of glucose gel into her mouth, picked up a rubber cable, and sat down on her bed. She took a deep breath and wound the cable tightly around her upper arm. She moved her fingers and flexed her biceps, feeling the cable constrain the muscle. She picked up a light dumbbell and started curling away, watching the veins on her arm protrude further and further. Her arm began to swell painfully as her heart tried to reclaim the blood trapped behind the cable.

18
Maya pulled the chair up to Claudio’s bed. She noticed that he had indeed changed their sheets. On his ankles, white remnants of lotion came squeezing out from under the bandages. Neither Maya nor Helena had been sure whether burn wounds needed bandaging.
“Does it hurt?” …I ask stupidly.
Oh, it’s not so bad,” Claudio answered and rattled the bottle of pills Helena had left him. You took those thirty seconds ago.
Maya rubbed her hands together and stared at the floor. Apparently, Claudio had vacuumed the carpet too—no more cactus dirt, no dried bits of paint and mud from her clothes.
“If I see Finn, I’m gonna kill him,” Maya said.
“Oh, it’s not the boy’s fault that the roller coaster malfunctioned. Although we should probably alert the front office. Not that other people go on that ride.”
He chuckled, and Maya wanted to scream at him.
“I’ll get you some water from the kitchen,” she said. “Do you need anything else?”
“Oh, you’re such a nice girl,” Claudio said. “Your clothes are in the dryer, by the way. If you want to change out of those dirty pajamas, that is. The laundry room is in between room twenty and room—”
Maya stepped into the corridor and pulled the door shut. For some reason, every one of Claudio’s kind words gave her a sting of pain. She held onto the door handle for a second and watched the wind drag the leaves across the glass wall, leaving thin traces in the dust. Hey, Maya, why don’t you take your time getting water for the dying man?
She started running, assuming to find the kitchen on the opposite side of the entrance. Barely taking notice of the countless papers that had been hung on the brick wall, she sprinted past the laundry room.
The wide double doors at the end of the corridor opened, and an old lady appeared, accompanied by Finn, who held her elbow and whispered to her intently. Maya’s face turned to stone at the sight of the boy. Finn spotted her running towards them, and his whispers intensified.
“…Maya…dispositional aggression…”
Maya came to a standstill in front of them. The old woman looked fearful, shrinking behind Finn’s shoulder.
“Finn,” Maya said, trying to control her voice, “do you realize that you burned Claudio’s legs? Could you do something about that? Right now?”
The old woman looked anxiously at the boy while Finn peered intently into Maya’s eyes. His jaw widened, and his hair grew to twice its length.
“Suppressed anger,” he murmured towards the woman. “Typical for people with dispositional aggression.” He faced Maya again. “Hello Maya, I have designed a new challenge for you which will address your internalized guilt and dispositional aggression.” He produced an envelope from his lab coat pocket and held it out to her. “Your new task is to write a non-aggressive poem about your sister—”
Maya slapped the envelope out of Finn’s hand. The elderly woman winced. Maya grabbed Finn by his lab coat.
“I said that Claudio needs your help. His legs are—”
Finn shook off Maya’s hand and took a step back. The elderly lady swayed, holding onto her cane, and looking back and forth between them like a deer surrounded by tigers. Finn cleared his throat.
“The subject, and his legs, are no longer a priority, in terms of reanimation. He has dementia and/or oxygen deficiency due to insufficient medical attention from Professor Hartmann. Residents with brain damage never awake, so I deprioritize them. Technically speaking, it is ethical.”
Brain damage?
Maya remembered Claudio’s confused questions as Helena had pulled him out of the cart. His hazy eyes as they had smeared lotion on his calves. The old woman smiled timidly.
“Oh, we can take a minute to look after that poor man. I’m in no hurry to—”
“Well, you should be in a hurry, Marge,” Finn interrupted her. “Your cardiac arrest was longer ago than the subject’s and he already has—”
“Say,” the woman said, turning her kind eyes to Maya. “This Claudio…how old is he?”
“Maybe forty.”
The woman pointed her cane down the corridor. 
“Go on and help him, Finn. I will wait in the common room. All this walking around is bad for my—”
“The head psychologist decides who to treat,” Finn said, his red eyes flashing at the woman. “If you do not like walking, we can do your challenge in the lab.”
The boy clapped his hands and disappeared alongside the woman. Maya turned, looking down the empty corridor. The afternoon sun dipped, and the shadows grew taller on the corridor wall.

19
Claudio’s legs hurt. He couldn’t remember where he was. Straining his neck, he looked down at his bandaged calves. Maybe he had just come out of surgery, and the anesthesia was affecting his memory. Although, hospital rooms rarely had bunk beds, skylights, or dusty carpets. He also wasn’t a fan of the yellow wallpaper. The door opened, and Maya came in, pushing a wheelchair.
“Maya! Hi!” Claudio said, elated to see a familiar face. “How are you?” 
He assumed they were in her parents’ house, although he wasn’t sure whether he was friends with them, too. Still, with Maya around, his confusion was became more amusing rather than unsettling. He would have thought that she was the kind of girl to put some effort into decorating her room, but apparently not. Maya pushed the wheelchair into a corner and sat down on the chair.
“How are you feeling?” Maya asked, and Claudio noticed that she hadn’t changed into her clean clothes. He had been fairly sure that he had done laundry, but now it struck him as unlikely, given that he was in another family’s house.
“Good, yeah,” Claudio said, accepting the bottle of water Maya gave him. He finished half the bottle without putting it down. Maybe his confusion stemmed from being dehydrated. “What’s new with you?” he asked, trying to remember their last conversation.

[The subject tries to hide his brain damage. According to the literature, it can happen.]

Maya furrowed her eyebrows and ran a hand through her hair.
“Okay, this is gonna be a weird question, but…is there something that’s wrong in your life? Something that we could fix?”
Claudio laughed, assuming Maya was setting him up for a joke…unless it had to do with his leg injury.
“Something wrong with my life? No, of course not. You aren’t worried about me, are you? Because I’m fine. More than fine.”
Claudio thought that Maya’s parents had likely asked her why there was a middle-aged man in her room. Come to think of it, Claudio agreed that it was very strange. He sat up and hit his head on the top bunk. A searing pain ripped through his legs, and he fell back onto the mattress.

More self-inflicted injury. Another symptom caused by brain problems. I told Maya that residents cannot find their true purpose after their brain started dying, except through singing, of course.]

“No, please, Claudio. Stay still,” Maya said, gently holding down his shoulder. “I meant…is there something in your life that makes you sad? Like…a secret wish, or something you’d change about yourself?” 
Claudio rubbed his head and kept his eyes closed.
“Oh, I’m not sure, Maya. I suppose that, if the university gave me a bit more money, we could offer more lunch options in the cafeteria. I already showed them different menus that we could—”
“No, I mean like…something more personal.” Maya got up and walked back and forth in front of the bed. “Let’s say…you feel bad about yourself…for something you did. What would that be?”

[Ah, Maya is trying what I, as a psychologist, call a diagnostic interview. Personally, I prefer to observe the behavior of the residents, because behavioral observations are more scientific than interviews.]

Claudio started to sweat. He had the feeling that Maya was testing him, and he wondered whether it was related to his injuries. Had he been in an accident? Had he caused the accident?
“I think…yes. I probably did something wrong…something very wrong. Maybe I…hurt somebody?”
Maya stopped in her tracks to muster him.
“I’m not asking you to guess, Claudio. We have to find something in your life that’s fixable. An attitude, or some bad habits—”
The door opened, and Helena came in, slightly sweaty and still wearing her tracksuit. Claudio was glad about the interruption and assumed that the woman—Helena—was Maya’s mother. 
“Alrighty, boys,” Helena said. “Talent show in the common room. Claudio is supposed to come and sing along with the music act. Maya, did you prepare some sort of poem?”
“No.”
Claudio realized that Helena knew him. She might have picked him up from the hospital. He hoped that he had already thanked her and wondered whether he had promised a specific kind of cake in return.
“Fair enough,” Helena said, grabbing Claudio by the arm to help him up. He was unsure why there was a talent show, or a ‘common room,’ but Helena seemed in a hurry, so he didn’t ask any questions.
“How is singing going to help him?” Maya asked.
Helena sighed.
“I don’t know, mate. Odds are it won’t.”
Claudio tried not to cry out as Helena lifted him into the wheelchair, but a small whimper escaped him as his calf hit the footrest.
“I’m so sorry, mate. My brain’s not getting any better either.”
Helena opened the door and pushed him out. Maya grabbed Claudio’s shoes, lotion, and his pocket square.

20
Maya entered the common room, ducking under a banner that read ‘Talent Show—Class of 56,000.’ Claudio sat in his wheelchair at one of the tables. Neither Finn nor Helena was in sight. Maya went over to him, accidentally kicking a colorful balloon which sailed over the heads of the seated residents, rolled across a wooden stage in front of the kitchen, and stopped against a tall microphone. Looks like a high school in here.
“Look at the nice decorations,” Claudio said as she sat down next to him, and prodded his pocket square into his jacket. He pointed at the starspangled curtains on stage. “I wonder if the organizers embroidered those themselves. And look at the balloon arches by the window. It must have taken a lot of people to inflate those.”
Or magic.
“Yeah, looks like the canteen in my high school,” Maya said.
Claudio turned to her.
“Well, I think it’s better to call it a cafeteria, not a canteen. People put a lot of work into the decorations.”
Maya shrugged. An elderly resident came around the stage, carrying a bowl of soup.
“You must be starving,” Claudio said to Maya and turned his wheelchair in her direction. “I could get you a sandwich before the show starts. Do you like mozzarella?”
“I’m not hungry.”
“How about something to drink at least? It’s important to stay hydrated while you’re studying. I’m sure they have juices, tea, coffee…” He laughed. “Many first-semester students have their first-ever coffee in my cafeteria. Of course, they never like it, but one or two years into their studies, they order their espressos and cappuccinos every day. Sometimes, I remind them of the face they made when they tried their first one, but only if their friends aren’t around.”
So he works in a cafeteria…
“I’d take an energy drink if they have that here.”
“One energizing drink,” Claudio said thoughtfully. “Of course I haven’t seen their pantry, but I’m sure we can figure something out.”
He whirled around and rolled handily towards the kitchen as if he had been wheelchair-bound for years. Maya smiled sadly and watched more residents trickle in. She recognized the lady who had talked to Finn in the corridor less than an hour ago. Instead of walking on a cane, she now sat in a wheelchair, slack-jawed and unresponsive to the man who rolled her to her table.
Is this how much time Claudio has left?
Shortly after, Claudio reappeared from behind the stage. He smiled at Maya and balanced a tray on his lap, careful not to roll against any chairs or tables. On the tray, stood a small, elegant glass with stacked, multicolored liquids. Claudio placed the tray on their table and leaned onto his armrest. 
“One energizing drink, as ordered. You should see their pantry, it’s unbelievable.” He pointed at the cookie next to the glass. “The biscotto has hazelnut by the way, just so you know. Although you don’t look like a kid who has allergies.” Claudio laughed–a happy, open laugh–the complete opposite of the aloof people sitting around the other tables. “I also used hazelnut milk for the barraquito. In my opinion, it gives it a more hearty flavor, but I can change it, of course. It’s a pretty common substitute for regular milk nowadays, and it’s always my intuition to avoid lactose-heavy drinks after lunch. It’s after lunch, right? Or are we having lunch now?”
Well, at least he’s enjoying himself.
Maya smiled and admired the drink: A shot glass filled with five distinct layers of golden, white, and dark liquids–something a braggy chemistry teacher might demonstrate for their class. She picked up the glass and smelled it.
Not bad.
“So, how is this an energy drink?”
Claudio laughed. 
“It’s a barraquito. I’m glad that you’ve never tried one. I think you might enjoy an artistic energy drink, given that you like to paint?”
Claudio lifted one eyebrow, as if to verify that his information was still correct. He leaned forward, swirling his finger above the glass. 
“I used whipped cream instead of milk foam, because it makes it easier to separate the top layers. Many students actually prefer the taste. I also doubled the amount of cinnamon powder–I always do that—and I used a vanilla-citrus syrup instead of liquor for the gold layer. Obviously, I’m not going to serve alcohol in my cafeteria.”
Maya chuckled along with him.
“Okay but—”
“Oh, and I also used half-caff for the coffee layer. You wanted an energizing drink, not an overstimulating drink, right? Especially given that you’re quite young and might not be used to it. Half the kids in my cafeteria never even tried coffee before college. It depends where you’re from, I suppose.” He hesitated for a moment and eyed her with sudden uncertainty. “Have you ever had coffee at home? Do your parents allow it?”
Why is he so hyper?
Maya thought back to a recent breakfast with her parents. She had been on her third cup of coffee when they had finally noticed and taken the pot away from her.
“My parents have bigger problems than what I drink.”
“Oh, I see.” 
Claudio blushed and turned his eyes to the stage. The common room had gotten pretty crowded. Some people talked. Maya took a sip from the top layers of her drink and inadvertently raised her eyebrows.
“So you like it?” Claudio asked instantly.
“Yeah,” she admitted. “It’s…really good actually.” 
Maya didn’t even have to pretend. She fully emptied the glass with her next chug. The lower levels were especially sweet and did a good job of hiding the coffee taste.
“Hey, we have a new coffee fan,” Claudio said and laughed. “Barraquitos are a good way to get used to the taste. But don’t order it in a restaurant. They’re going to put alcohol in it.”
“Sure,” Maya said, “I’ll be careful.”
The lights in the ceiling dimmed and a dramatic spotlight fell onto the stage curtain. A trumpet fanfare blasted through the room. A woman in the front row started so forcefully that she hit the table and toppled over multiple tea mugs and bowls of soup. The curtains zipped open, and Finn stepped out. He had stuck a dozen stars onto his lab coat and put on a top hat. Further, he had exchanged his usual clipboard for a bespeckled baton, which also had a top hat as its grip. A youthful grin spread on his pale face, and he spoke with the affected playfulness of a TV showmaster.
“Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for our scientific talent show!” 
There was scattered applause, initiated by Claudio.
“Thank you,” Finn said and lifted his top hat. “Tonight, we have three very special acts for you, and as always, except for sometimes, of course, the winner is determined by applause.”
Finn raised his hands, but this time, even Claudio missed the cue to clap.
“It is my first duty, as head psychologist of tonight’s show, to inform you that we only have two acts instead of three. Maya—” he pointed his baton at her, “unfortunately refused to write a poem about her dead sister, although it would have counted as Poetry Therapy.”
Maya flared her nostrils and ground her teeth, unsure what to do. Idiot.
There was absolute silence in the room. Out of the corner of her eyes, she could see Claudio turning her way. His hand moved over the table towards hers, but she pulled hers back. Finn tapped his baton onto the stage to regain people’s attention.
“The success rate of my psychological challenges is already low enough. Please do not make it harder by withdrawing your consent, which is apparently something that people can do in psychological studies.”
The boy took a deep breath and forced a smile onto his face. His teeth were far apart and pointy at the end. Finn stopped smiling, cleared his throat, took another deep breath, and started smiling again. Now his teeth are normal.
“According to time pressure, the first act should probably be Riko, but psychologists always decide randomly, so…” The boy pulled a coin out of his star-covered lab coat and flipped it onto the stage. “And of course, it lands on the wrong side.” Finn quickly turned his face away from the audience. His shoulder seemed to bulge out, and the baton in his hand cracked and broke in half. For a few seconds, the boy’s inflated torso heaved, and a high-pitched whining sound came from the stage. The boy turned around, using his hand to keep his eyes and mouth from sliding over his face. “Everyone, please welcome our first act, Helena!”
Maya looked at Claudio, who had kept his eyes on her, not noticing Finn’s transfigurations. The ceiling lights above the stage shone brighter, and Finn fled from the stage. The rest of the room sank into complete darkness. A tape sprang on, blasting upbeat music.
Helena jumped out from behind the curtain, and the elderly woman in the front screamed in surprise. Maya’s mouth fell open, too. Helena had exchanged her baggy tracksuit for a yellow bikini. Her spray-tanned arms and legs bulged with thick muscles and veins. Holy…
On stage, Helena spurred on the audience to clap to the music, and then dropped to one knee, turning sideways and striking a pose that flexed her striated shoulders and showed off the deep ridge of her spine.
“Holy shit,” Maya said. She got up and started clapping, ignoring Claudio who still watched her with the same expression as Alamar, the school psychologist, and everyone else in the world.
“She looks crazy, eh?” Maya said to make him look away. 
“Yes,” Claudio said, slowly turning to the stage, “Helena seems very…sporty.”
The music was happy—almost to an ironic degree—and many of the residents readily supported Helena by stomping and slapping the tables rhythmically. On stage, Helena laughed and took a new stance, leaning backwards to present her bulging quads and abs. Weird, but also kind of awesome.
Flexing her arms over her head, Helena stretched one leg to the side. The muscles in her thigh looked as if someone had tied threads around a balloon and inflated it to the max. 
Claudio stared emptily at the stage, his claps continually drifting from the crowd’s rhythm. The elderly lady in the front heaved herself up from her wheelchair and shuffled towards the stage, exclaiming, “Wow, Helena. Wow.” Helena laughed and slightly lost her form, but willingly interrupted her choreography to offer her flexed biceps to the woman who touched it admiringly. Maya laughed.
The music trickled out, and Helena took one last pose, her arms spread like wings, reaching into the empty air like a Greek statue. The crowd of seniors cheered one more time, and right before Helena disappeared behind the curtain, Maya could see joyful tears running down her face.

21
Helena smiled, waved once more, and left the common room. Walking through the corridor, she ignored the thick layer of papers that covered the wall. She massaged her aching skull and entered her room. She glanced at the alarm clock on her nightstand and shook out her face. Unsure what to do with the extra time, she arranged her dumbbells in a row against the wall, and stacked her plates into a tower. She grabbed a few stray rubber bands and hung them over her bedpost. Lying flat on the carpet, she managed to retrieve an elbow pad and some lifting straps from under the bed. Her headaches stung as she got back up. 
While storing her chalkbags in the bottom drawer of the nightstand, she looked at the alarm clock again. Pacing through the room, she decided to unrack the plates from each barbell and add them to the tower. After she finished that, she paced again, brushing her fingers over the weightlifting belts on her duvet. She stretched her hands and massaged her forearms while walking in circles around her weightlifting bench, taking deep breaths.
She spotted an open jar of protein powder, closed it, and placed it next to her running shoes. She went over to her bed, feeling her biceps as she pulled the sheets tight. Again, the alarm clock. Her eyelid twitched.
Helena grabbed the seat of her lifting bench, shifting its weight onto two little wheels, and started maneuvering it across the room. The alarm rang, and Helena disappeared. 

22
Claudio had been too distracted to appreciate Helena’s performance. Had nobody else heard that Maya’s sister had died? Had this happened recently? If so, why were they at a talent show right now? For some reason, she laughed at him.
“Did you enjoy the show? Helena’s pretty fit, eh?”
He smiled awkwardly.
“Yes.” He cleared his throat. “She’s very good at…this.” He smoothed his suit jacket, unsure whether he was supposed to ignore what he had just learned. Had there been a funeral? Had he already expressed his condolences to the family? 
Finn retook his spot under the bright lights. He looked horrible, his white hair hanging in clumps from his head. His hands shook, and his red eyes scanned the audience hectically.
“Well, another failed challenge, I suppose,” he mumbled. “I am not sure why Helena did not awake, to be precise. Maybe applause needs to be extremely loud to cure people’s body dysmorphia. Or maybe the psychological literature is wrong…again.”
There were awkward glances among the residents, and Claudio was glad that Helena wasn’t around to hear Finn’s inappropriate diagnosis. In his opinion, the boy tended to overshare people’s private information.
“Did you know that most psychologists actually fake their data?” The boy continued. His unsteady legs carried him to the edge of the stage. “I read that seventy percent of psychological papers cannot be trusted, although I read that in a psychological paper, so it might not be true. Maybe I misinterpreted it.”
The audience silently watched Finn. Claudio was very impressed that such a young boy was already reading academic papers.
“Oh well,” Finn said, and put on his bright smile again. “The next challenge should definitely work. I am not one hundred percent sure how to diagnose Riko, but a talent show addresses all her candidate disorders: shyness, performance anxiety, stage fright, social anxiety, confidence problems, and most other things.”
Claudio vaguely remembered the name Riko, but couldn’t match it to a face. Finn pointed his baton at Claudio.
“Oh, and those of you with oxygen deprivation symptoms are encouraged to sing along. According to the literature, communal singing will give you a sense of purpose and belonging, although it is unlikely to help you awaken, because I probably misunderstood the paper…again.”
Claudio turned around, unsure whether the boy had pointed at him.

[The subject is unaware of his own brain problems. A clear sign that, next to pathological altruism and loneliness, he is also suffering from traumatic brain injury due to oxygen deprivation. How can I reanimate him if he has dozens of problems and disorders?]

“Okay, ladies and gentlemen,” Finn announced. His youthful voice got lost in animalistic gargles. Claudio winced and leaned back in his wheelchair. The boy took off his tophat, hid his face, and cleared his throat. “Please welcome our final contestant, Riko!”
Maya got up and clapped loudly. The other residents joined, and a small hand appeared at the edge of the curtain. A little girl poked her face out, looking absolutely terrified. Instinctively, Claudio tried to get up as well, but his legs didn’t respond. The elderly lady had stayed in the front, drumming her hands on the stage, and motioning for Riko to come forward. Reluctantly, the girl let go of the curtain and stepped onstage, gripping a microphone that was as big as her forearm. For some reason, Claudio felt uneasy about a young girl being part of this show.
The stage lights dimmed, making most of the tables disappear in the shadows. Finn snuck through the darkness and sat down next to Claudio, who noticed the boy’s gleaming red eyes. He leaned away from the boy who gripped a clipboard, stared up at the young girl, and whispered, “Come on, come on, come on.”
Riko’s torso heaved, and she turned sideways, apparently tempted to run away, when the sound of a foreign string instrument descended tenderly from the ceiling. Riko reflexively lifted the microphone and opened her mouth, but her arm dropped again. Claudio could hear Finn’s fingers digging into the paper on his clipboard. His fingernails seemed abnormally long and pointy. The music swelled, and Riko lifted the microphone again. A single syllable escaped her, as if the end of a word, and again she dropped the microphone. The audience didn’t need any more. Maya and the elderly lady applauded ferociously.

[The subject’s friendly behavior has rubbed off on Maya. Obviously, it did not cause her to awaken because nothing ever works.]

Riko’s knuckles shone white as she lifted the microphone again. Despite the bright spotlight in her face, her pupils appeared dilated. 

[Cocaine helps for talent shows. This has to work.]

The little girl squeezed her eyes shut, and when she sang, Claudio took his eyes off Finn, and Maya’s hands froze midclap. 
Riko’s voice was clear and promising—like Kleinburg’s tower bell announcing lunchtime. Riko’s words were in a foreign language, but the residents listened as if the song retold their very lives. 
Seemingly unaware of the audience, Riko kept her eyes closed and sang with the conviction of a child. Her voice summoned foreign summers and unknown memories of a childhood far away. Claudio was sure that she was singing about her family at home. Next to him, Maya took a twitching breath as Riko’s voice swung to higher and higher notes. 
Finn rose to his feet, nodding as if his hopes were being confirmed right then and there. The stage appeared to gleam brighter and brighter, and the air around Riko was twinkling. Maya and a few others started applauding.
“Yes,” Finn said, first whispering, then screaming. “Yes, do it. Do it now. AWAKE!”
Startled by the noise, Riko’s eyes shot open. She saw the pale boy pointing at her from the crowd. The microphone fell from her hand, and the color drained from her face. She staggered and fell to her knees. Waves traversed her eyes, rippling through her large pupils.
“No,” exclaimed multiple people at once.
Without thinking, Claudio heaved himself up from his wheelchair. His legs gave in, and he crashed through the table and onto the floor. His vision blurred, but he could hear chairs being thrown aside as people ran towards the stage. He grasped blindly for his wheelchair and felt a supportive hand under his elbow.
“I got you,” Maya said close to his ear.
“The girl…,” he started, “what’s happening to the girl?”
Maya helped him up into his chair. People ran towards the stage, obstructing his view.
“I can’t see. Where’s the girl?”
Maya stood up straight and looked towards the stage, her fingers digging into Claudio’s shoulder.
“I think she’s gone,” she whispered, her hand kneading his shoulder. “I’m sorry, Claudio. I’m so sorry.”

23
	“This is Professor Elizabeth Hartmann. I am making this video recording on the twenty-second of December, twenty twenty-four, in the parapsychology lab of Kleinburg University. The time is six forty-five pm. Due to technical problems with subject two, we will retrieve subject one instead.”
	To Helena, the words sounded like they were being projected from far away. Another voice cut through the darkness.
“She blinked, Professor. She’s coming back. The machine is working.”
Helena’s brain started producing information. She knew that the louder voice belonged to Professor Hartmann. They were in the basement laboratories of Kleinburg University…although a second ago she’d been in the other place—the Dormitory on the beach. She tried to open her eyes but, as per usual, her muscles weren’t responding yet. Professor Hartmann’s voice sounded close to her ear.
“Helena, can you hear us? Helena!”
A finger pulled one of her eyelids open, allowing brutal light to crash into her brain. Helena’s abdomen twitched, attempting an exclamation of pain. Professor Hartmann’s stooped silhouette shifted underneath the neon lights, and Helena felt a strong grip on her chin as her head was turned sideways towards another bed next to hers. There was a person there who hadn’t been there when they had hooked her up to the machine.
“Who’s that man, Helena?” the elderly professor croaked. “You met this person in the psi-sphere. What’s his name? Say his name now!”
Helena tried to focus her eyes. Why did she have to identify the subject? The plan had been for other volunteer to identify her.
The blurry man on the other bed had a large belly and was wearing a suit. Why had he put on a suit for the procedure? Maybe he wanted to be dressed nicely, in case they couldn’t bring him back. Professor Hartmann had they’d be buried in the desert if things went wrong. 
Helena blinked, trying to get a clearer view of the man’s face. Countless cables led into his head harness, the same model that she was wearing, only rustier. The professor’s shadow fell over Helena’s face.
“Say his name. Fast! Say it!”
Professor Hartmann held her video camera so close to Helena’s face that it almost poked her eye. She remembered that the identifier would be under time pressure. Memories already withdrew from her brain. Images of Finn, her room, the beach, and various residents…everything was disappearing into a bright tunnel. She had met the man on the other side.
“Clau—.” 
She coughed and wretched. Her throat was too dry to produce any vowels. 
“What did she say, Professor? Did she say his name?” the assistant’s voice sounded from the corner of the laboratory.
“Shut up,” Professor Hartmann screamed back and rubbed the camera’s microphone against Helena’s chapped lips.
“Subject one, repeat the name of subject two! Now!”
A fresh band of blood glistened on the man’s neck, darkening his collar and dripping onto a discarded syringe on the floor. Something must have gone wrong with the timing for subject two. They had rushed the anesthesia. 
For some reason, Helena could neither feel her legs nor her arms. She glanced downwards—and remembered the accident. A wave-like convulsion crawled up from her stomach, making her limbless body contract like a worm. 
“She’s going to vomit,” Professor Kulling said to her assistant. 
The assistant grabbed Helena by her shoulder and hip stumps and rolled her to the side, so that most of the yellow liquid landed on the lab floor. For the thousandth time, Helena wished people would ask before touching her body. People generally felt entitled to roll her around like a can or a log, assuming they were doing her a favor. The professor grabbed her by the chin again, pointing her face towards the other subject.
“Did you meet this man on the other side or not? What’s his name?”

24
The second that Riko elapsed, Finn started screaming—an eerie, bird-like scream. He clasped his hands over his head, shivered, and grew to twice his size. He screamed again, this time roaring like a bear. His lab coat ripped open, revealing a bony upper body and scaly skin. His remaining hair fell from his head, and fire burned in his eyes. The giant boy lunged onto the crowded stage, grabbed the head of the elderly lady in the front row, and lifted her into the air. Electric bolts shot from his long fingers into the woman’s skull.
“Awake!” he screamed. “Awake now!” The woman spasmed and went limp. Finn laughed manically and flung her body into a group of chairs.
Oh, shit!
Amidst the screams, Maya grabbed the handles of Claudio’s wheelchair and pushed him towards the exit, tipping tables and pushing away chairs. Other people fled from the stage, shouting, crying, and toppling over each other on their way to the exit. A few empty-eyed residents remained motionless in their seats and were shoved aside by the mob.
“I said: AWAKE!”
Maya glanced back to see Finn pinning an elderly man onto the stage, prodding the man’s mouth open with his claws, and dumping an entire bottle of pills down his throat. The man choked and coughed.
He’s gonna kill us all.
“What is happening?” Claudio cried, trying to spin in his seat. “Where is the girl?”
Maya swerved to avoid the lifeless body of a man whose hospital gown had dirty footprints on the back. The crowd pressed through the doors and into the moonlit corridor. A furious wind blew through the forest outside. Leaves and branches whipped against the window. Maya and Claudio made it through the door when the wheelchair got stuck on something.
Shit!
An ankle-high layer of papers filled the corridor, causing multiple residents to stumble, slip, and fall. Maya pulled out the document entangled in the wheelchair spokes.
Paper 5,809: About the continuity of our consciousness
“What is happening?” Claudio shouted, grasping at a paper on his lap.
Paper 71,329: Near-Death Experiences, the mind-body debate & the nature of reality
“I’m getting you out of here,” Maya screamed and pressed the wheelchair forward with all her strength. Behind them, Finn ducked through the doorframe. Bloody handprints were smeared across his tethered lab coat. He grabbed the nearest resident by the throat and pinned him to the brick wall.
“Confess your urges! CONFESS!”
The man gasped for air, his feet dangling in the air. When something cracked in his neck and his eyes rolled back, the monstrous boy laughed, revealing his sharp teeth and a split tongue.
Maya whined from the effort of moving the wheelchair. Behind them, Finn dropped the lifeless man into the mountains of papers. Ahead, the slower residents crawled towards the exit, while the faster ones already fled across the beach. We’re not gonna make it.
Spotting room number fifteen, Maya pulled the door open and pushed the wheelchair inside. She grabbed the table, yanked it across the room, and barricaded the door. Claudio turned wildly in his wheelchair.
“Where are we? What is that monster—”
Maya lunged across the room and covered his mouth with her hands. Claudio grunted and wiggled in her grasp. Outside, the screams of the fleeing residents faded, and Maya could hear giant legs dragging through paper. She held her breath and hushed at Claudio. He stopped squirming. Finn’s voice boomed.
“I see you two in there. The girl with the trauma, and the man with a thousand disorders. Who wants to see the doctor first?”
His terrible laugh rang through the corridor. The door handle tilted down, and the door swung against the table. Finn’s giant face appeared in the crack, his reptilian tongue flicking into the room. Maya hugged Claudio.
“Think of something nice,” she whispered into his ear. “Just think of something nice.”
Holding on to his armrests, Claudio pressed his eyes shut and searched for a happy memory—any memory.

25
The crickets celebrated the warm summer evening as young Claudio lifted his chin over the railing to look down into the orange-lit alley. Another car arrived and parked next to the baker’s stand, a tent-like extension of the bakery on the ground floor. A young couple got out and were welcomed by excited voices from below the tarp, where the baker’s crew had been talking and laughing all evening. A family name was shouted enthusiastically, and the baker’s son sprinted out from below the tent and into the bakery. Music and the smell of warm dough escaped through the door and rose up to Claudio. Two more cars arrived, their lights illuminating the growing crowd around the tent. There were hugs and laughter as people recognized each other. 
After a minute, the baker’s son reappeared with a tray and a cake that looked like a three-petaled flower. Cheers and congratulations from the small crowd. Claudio could see an older woman hurrying over to the young couple, pointing at the cake, and hugging them. A neighbor on a balcony across the street put out his cigarette and leaned over the railing to applaud and cheer loudly until the young couple looked up to him.
“Son or daughter?” the neighbor shouted, but they didn’t seem to hear him, as the young man merely waved and smiled.
Meanwhile, the baker’s son had brought out another cake, this one for the elderly lady who had arrived after the couple. Two assistants helped carry the giant tray. The cake looked like a jungle, sprawling out into different branches overladen with leaves and blossoms of different colors. Claudio had never seen a cake like that. The admiring sounds of the crowd quickly turned into more laughter as the baker crew pretended to offload the massive cake into the arms of the elderly woman. She shook her cane at them and pointed at two young men hurrying over from the cars. After a few cheek kisses, the men—likely her grandsons or even great-grandsons—received the cake, stowed it in a trunk under the strict supervision of the woman, and drove off.
Claudio stayed on the balcony for hours, watching the town’s people pick up their cakes, some smaller, and larger. The cakes of the oldest families in the town boasted countless leaves and branches, while the younger families often received cakes shaped like individual flowers. The baker crew, including the young son, laughed and hurried back and forth, exchanging money, expressing gratitude, and joking around with the numerous local kids, who had apparently been allowed to stay up late. 
Behind Claudio, the door to the balcony opened, and he could hear his mother’s dragging steps before feeling her hand on his shoulder. She leaned onto the railing next to him and lit a cigarette. Claudio waited to see whether she would send him to bed, but she only blew smoke and looked at the people below.
“I think it’s a tradition,” Claudio said, trying to anticipate his mother’s question. “The size of the cake represents the size of the family, I think.” 
“Oh yeah?” his mother said, and took another drag.
Claudio pointed at the baker’s son helping to carry a cake towards the cars.
“That boy could be my age. Maybe he’s in the same class as me.”
“Could be,” his mother said, scanning the horizon.
Claudio held on tightly to the railing of the balcony. 
“He looks happy,” he said, unsure whether he was addressing his mother or himself.
His mother flicked away her half-finished cigarette.
“Comes with being useful.”
She went back inside. Claudio heard the door to her bedroom open and close.
He stayed on the balcony all night, watching the boy bring out cake after cake for the local families. He seemed to have the time of his life, running around, collecting money, and being waved over to form part of various photographs. It was like he was part of every family down there. Claudio could still remember falling asleep on the balcony, surrounded by the voices from below and the warm smell of cinnamon.

26
Maya hugged Claudio, listening to Finn smashing the door open and crushing the table against the wall. The giant boy grabbed her by the ankle and lifted her into the air. Maya kept her eyes on Claudio. His mouth was open, and he stared blankly, trapped in fantasies or memories. Finn held her up with one hand, grinning menacingly.
“Do you know my favorite psychology trick?” He lifted a long fingernail to her eye. “It is called lobotomy, and it cures depression and aggression. A great fit for your problems, no?”
Maya realized Finn would stab his finger into her brain. She closed her eyes and held her breath.
What a shit way to die.
The furious cry of an animal shot into her ears. Something hit Finn in the back. He stumbled and cursed, dropping Maya headfirst onto the carpet.
An orange flurry of animal rage charged at Finn, hairy hands striking the boy’s chest and face. Finn staggered backwards into the room, pushing Claudio’s wheelchair against the wall.
“Koko,” Maya whispered, dizzy from her fall.
The ape screamed, jumped forward, and sank his teeth into Finn’s arm. The boy gasped, struggling to regain his balance. The orangutan was only half the boy’s size, but Maya knew how strong orangutans were.
Finn’s nose had been disfigured—dented and pressed sideways into his skull. Blood poured from the animal bite into the sleeve of his lab coat. Yes, kill him.
With a grunt, Finn threw Koko back into the corridor, where the ape landed in a pile of papers. Koko jumped back to his feet and dodged the oncoming Finn, who went flying into the glass wall.
“Maya?” Claudio’s voice sounded weak and confused. “Where are we?”
She grabbed the handles of his wheelchair, but Finn’s back blocked the doorway. With horror, Maya saw the boy lift Koko by his skull. The boy laughed and pierced his long, pale finger through the animal’s eye and into his brain.

27

	Helena kept her eyes on the other man, away from her own body.
“Why did you bring me back?” she mumbled, unable to shake the drowsiness in her brain. 
	“We tried, the assistant said, “but—“
“Shut up,” Professor Hartmann cried and pushed the assistant aside, reading her camera. “Tell us his name. Now!”
	Helena swallowed.
	“Subject two is…friendly. He’s a…baker.”
The camera shook in Professor Hartmann’s hand.
“We need his name. Look at his face.”
The assistant appeared behind the professor’s shoulder.
“But isn’t he a kind of baker? Can we count this as evidence—“
“Stop talking!” the professor shouted and pushed the camera back into Helena’s face. “Come on now, say his name. Say that you met him in the psi-sphere“
Helena realized that she had to play her cards right. She shook her head.
“I’m sorry, Professor. I’ve met subject two on the island, but I cannot remember his name. He is alive, though…in the other place, I mean.”
Professor Hartmann regarded her with suspicion. She pointed her camera at the assistant.
“Get the machine ready. We’re sending her back.”

28

Claudio watched the boy’s finger lodge deep into the monkey’s head. The animal became limp and fell to the ground. Next to his wheelchair, Maya sank to her knees.
“Lobotomy does not seem to work on animals,” the giant boy said and turned to Maya. “Well, humans are different than—“
The boy became stiff and cocked his oversized head. He touched his chest, an expression of terror on his face. His read eyes stared straight ahead as if observing something in the far distance.
“Professor Hartmann’s experiment…it failed,” he whispered. “No evidence for the afterlife.”
His shining red eyes shifted to Claudio.
“Why did Helena not recognize you? She saw you multiple times.”
Confused, Claudio watched the boy stumble, hold onto the doorframe, and inspect the wood under his long fingers.
“If the afterlife is not real, the dormitory is not real either.”
A sharp crack as the doorframe burst into flame. The boy let his eyes wander over the corridor floor, covered in papers.
“Maybe all these thousands of researchers are lying about near-death experiences. Maybe they all faked their data.”
The boy held up his hands, smoke rising from his fingertips.
“Maybe there is no afterlife.” The boy looked through his burning hands right at Claudio. “Maybe I am just in your head—leftover electricity in your nervous system.” The boy shifted his piercing eyes to Maya. “Or maybe I am in your head. Or maybe I am in nobody’s head.”
The boy’s head caught flame. Claudio grabbed Maya by the shoulder and pulled her back. The boy’s voice kept droning on.
“Seventy percent of psychological findings are fake—non-reproducible—fraudulent—Helena did not recognize the other subject—but she was on my island—I saw her—but Professor Hartmann’s experiment failed—what does it mean—evidence of absence, or absence of evidence?—the sample size is too small—near-death experiences exist—but they might just be stories—do stories count as evidence?—because if not…there is no evidence for near-death experiences…no evidence that I exist.”
The boy’s burning body fell back into the corridor, setting the mountains of papers aflame.
“We have to get out,” Maya screamed at Claudio. He was surprised to find snot and saliva drooping from his chin. Embarassed, he wiped his sleeve over his mouth and looked at Maya. Had she just said something? His legs hurt. There was noise and heat close by—danger. They had to get away. Maya grabbed the wheelchair and pushed him into the burning corridor.

29
Flames shot up the brick wall, consuming the papers on Maya’s left and licking at the windows on her right. She continued pushing Claudio through the fire tunnel, assuming that her hair and clothes were already on fire. The wheelchair hit the body of the orangutan, and Claudio fell forward into the flames. Coughing and unable to see through the smoke, Maya groped around until she felt Claudio’s legs. Paying no attention to his cries, Maya gripped his bandaged calves and pulled him towards her. Where’s the exit?
“Meow.”
The sound of the cat had come from behind her. Maya coughed, unable to get any oxygen into her lungs. Flames danced around Claudio’s body, but she managed to pull him a little further.
An orange tail flicked over Maya’s neck, and again the cat meowed loudly. Trying not to breathe, Maya leaned back with all her weight and pulled on Claudio’s legs. The bandages on his calves came loose, as did the skin underneath. Claudio made no sound. The sleeves of his pajamas were burning brightly as Maya dragged him a little further through the flames.
She ignored her failing lungs, closed her eyes to protect them from the heat, and relied on the sound of the cat to guide her towards the exit. She pulled and pulled until she reached the beach and collapsed onto the sand.


30
It was dark, but Helena knew where she was. The air smelt like salt, and the bamboo walls sighed in the wind. The field bed squeaked as she sat up and savored the feeling of her toes touching the floor. Her fingers gripped the cold metal of the bedframe, and she rubbed her feet together. Her hands glided over the soft sleeves of her tracksuit. Every movement–every brush of fabric over her skin–was accompanied by a bitter-sweet sting of finality. This would be her final visit to the island.
Helena left her socks and shoes in the shed and walked barefoot onto the beach. The moonlight glistened on the waves. She ran her fingers through her hair and dug her toes into the sand. 
The wind carried the smell of smoke. In between the dark trees behind the shed, Helena saw orange lights flickering. The forest was burning. Squinting, she tried to make out the dormitory at the end of the beach—a ball of fire. Helena started running—faster than she ever had—feeling her feet fling up the cold sand.

31
	Maya knew she was badly burned. She couldn’t breathe well, and her chest hurt. She rolled onto her side and crawled up to Claudio, who lay in the sand beside her. His suit jacket was smoldering, and Maya didn’t even dare to look at his legs…but, somewhat selfishly, she hoped he was still alive, even if just for a few minutes.
	“Hey!” She coughed and struck him in the side. “Claudio.”
His eyes were open, blindly watching the night sky. Every star was shining down at them, a sea of distant photographers, capturing the end of their lives. The flames had already spread from the dormitory to the surrounding trees, illuminating the beach in bright orange. Their shadows stretched far across the sand. Uma came galloping out of the darkness, jumped onto Claudio’s chest, and meowed angrily. Claudio started.
“Kitty,” he said in a surprised voice. “What are you doing here?”
Maya laughed and coughed.
“Uma is always around when you don’t want her to.”
Claudio nodded. His eyes filled with fear.
“Where is that…boy?”
Maya watched the roof of the dormitory collapse in a thunderstorm of sparks and flames.
“Don’t worry about him. He wasn’t real. Just a dream.”
“Oh, good.” Claudio let his head sink onto the sand. “He wasn’t very nice to me, you know? He kept saying that there’s something wrong with me.”
Maya softly lay her head against his side.
“There’s nothing wrong with you, Claudio.”
“Well,” he chuckled, “I suppose that there are a few things, but it isn’t very nice to talk about them, don’t you think?”
“I agree.”
Maya’s headaches drowned out the rest of the pain. She knew this was the end. The singed cat pawed at Claudio’s elbow, and Maya chased her away.
“It’s a nice beach, no?” Claudio said, still staring upwards. “I was here before, I think.”
The cat clawed at Claudio’s ear until Maya shoved her away. Claudio smiled.
“It is getting late, Maya,” he said. “You should go home. Your parents must be worried sick.”
Maya grimaced and said nothing. In her experience, her parents started worrying about their kids after they died.
“You don’t know my parents,” she whispered, hoping to avoid an argument.
“That’s true,” Claudio said. “But they’ve been trying to get you back.”
He nodded towards the cat pacing back and forth at Maya’s feet. Uma meowed loudly. Maya swallowed, thinking of Koko’s body burning in the ruins behind them. They’re not real. They’re just wishful thinking.
“It does not matter what my parents want,” she said quietly. “I was supposed to watch my sister. It’s my fault that she’s…dead.”
She couldn’t believe that she had actually said it. Claudio nodded. 
“I know. And I understand if you don’t want to go back.” The cat growled at Claudio, but he only smiled. “It’s your decision, Maya.”
She cleared her throat and watched Claudio’s wavy eyes gaze at the stars. 
“It would probably make your day if I went back, wouldn’t it?”
“Yes,” Claudio whispered. “Yes, it would.”
Maya sighed, sat up, and adjusted the pocket square in Claudio’s jacket. It had little sunflowers on it.
“Okay, Claudio. I’ll go.”

32
Helena’s legs effortlessly carried her across the beach. With ease, she outran the black smog poured out of the trees onto the sand. She arrived at the burning remains of the dormitory and looked around. A large man lay on his back, and a girl knelt by his side. The girl put her hand on the man’s chest. Glistening white lights surrounded her, dancing and spinning until Helena had to shield her eyes.

33
Maya’s heart started beating, and she woke up in a puddle of paint and vomit. Dazed, she sat up and looked around her mother’s studio. The back of her head pulsated with dull and stinging pains. She crawled past the reading lamp that had fallen over but still cast easel-shaped shadows onto the walls of the attic. Maya pulled herself up by the window handle, twisted it, and let the night air rush in, dispersing the chemical smells. She pulled a stool to the window, coughed, and rubbed her eyes. 
What just happened?
She started shivering, distantly aware that this hadn’t been a regular blackout. She remembered a tunnel and a bright light, and an angel waiting on the other side. Her hair was drenched with paint, but she kept sitting by the open window and clasped her arms around herself. She spotted a furry, orange ball in the corner of the room. Uma had curled up and seemingly gone to sleep, ignoring the entire drug-infused escapade.
From her headphones, lying in a glimmering paint puddle, came feeble sounds. Maya picked up her phone to switch off the music. She saw the time and realized that her parents’ exhibition hadn’t even started yet. The phone buzzed–five unread messages. The first one had come in only minutes after her parents had left.

6:38 - From Mom:
Hi Maya, I forgot to feed Uma. Could you check her bowl?

6:41 - From Mom:
Actually, your dad and I also don’t feel like looking at Diana’s still lifes today. Maybe her paintings really are a bit “lame” :D Should we bring back a pizza instead?

6:43 - From Mom:
There is a bit of an emergency at the zoo. Something with Koko, so your dad wants to stop by there on the way, but we’ll be home in twenty minutes max.

6:45 - From Dad:
Hi Maya,
Your mom worries that you are not responding to her texts. Everything okay? Please send a message or CALL.

6:46 - From Mom:
Coming straight home. 2 minutes

Maya cleared her throat. The trash bag and the discarded paint cans had spread their contents far across the floorboards. Trying to ignore her headaches, Maya hurried downstairs, changed out of her ruined hoodie, and fetched a bucket and a mop. 
Back on the stairs, she hesitated, went back into her room, and retrieved her latest painting from under the bunk bed. She hung it on one of the empty slots in the studio and looked at it. All four faces of her family.
Outside, she could hear her parents’ car pull into the driveway. One car door opened before the engine shut off, and she could hear her mother’s hurried steps on the gravel. Maya looked down at the attic’s ruined floorboards. Offshoots of yellow-brown paint unfurled from the dark trash bag into every corner of the room, like a sunflower in bloom.

34

Incredulous, Helena ran over to Claudio and fell to her knees by his side.
“You friggin hero, mate! What did you say to her?”
Helena saw Claudio’s face—his empty eyes frozen in a smile. She sighed and sat more comfortably, staring out into the whirling vapors of smoke and fog drifting across the water. The heat of the burning dormitory warmed her back. The ocean wind cooled her face.
“Well, you went out with a bang, my friend. That’s for sure.”
Helena let her eyes wander to the other side of the beach, shrouded in black clouds. She thought about Professor Kulling and her assistant.
“They should have woken you up, Claudio. Would’ve solved everyone’s problems.”
She got up, went behind him, bent her legs, grabbed him around the ribs, and tried to pull him up. She groaned, feeling her quads flex, and her arms strain under the load. She felt her hands slipping, and her back cracked, but she managed to hoist him up. Momentarily resting her chin on his shoulder, Helena savored the pain in her limbs.
“There we go, mate. We can do this.”
She shifted her body in front of his, pulled his arms over her shoulders, and leaned forward, lifting him like a large backpack. She staggered and swayed precariously. 
“You’re a featherweight, old friend. I could carry you all the way home.”
Helena took a step, feeling her bare feet sink into the sand and sweat run over her face.
“Back on Earth, leg days were always my favorite. Did I mention that?”
She took another step. And then another. Besides them, the flames consumed the forest. They passed the wake-up shed, just in time to see the bamboo walls bend, letting the burning roof slide onto the beach.
Helena groaned and strained under the heavy load, but she kept marching forward, feeling the sand withdraw underneath the black stones.
“Almost there now.”
 Shadows danced around them—humanoid shapes, barely visible through the fog and smoke. Helena’s knees shook, and she looked over her shoulder into Claudio’s calm face.
“You’re waiting for me on the other side, aren't you? Cheering me on.”
She adjusted Claudio’s arms and leaned forward again, balancing him on her back. She felt scared, but also stronger than ever before.
“Alright, mate. Final steps now.”
Helena reached the waveless water beyond the fog. She squeezed Claudio’s hands and fell forward into the void.￼ Dysfluent handwriting in schizophrenic outpatients. Perceptual and Motor Skills (2016).￼ The impact of adult behavioural weight management interventions on mental health: A systematic review and meta‐analysis. Obesity Reviews (2021).￼ Pathological altruism. Oxford University Press (2011).￼ Relation of cognitive functioning to daily living skills in a geriatric population. Psychological Reports (1989).￼ Exercise: A neglected intervention in mental health care? Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing (2004).￼ Self-regulation of breathing as a primary treatment for anxiety. Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (2015).￼ Babel babble: physicians' use of unclarified medical jargon with patients. American Journal of Health Behavior (2007).￼ Mangrum, J. M., & DiMarco, J. P. (2000). The evaluation and management of bradycardia. New England Journal of Medicine, 342(10), 703-709.￼ Mold, J. W., Holtzclaw, B. J., & McCarthy, L. (2012). Night sweats: a systematic review of the literature. The Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine, 25(6), 878-893.￼ Short-and long-term benefits of cognitive training. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (2011).￼ Is worry different from rumination? Yes, it is more predictive of psychopathology! GMS Psycho-Social-Medicine (2009).￼ Life satisfaction and increased self-perceived attractiveness as psychological benefits of physical activity. Humanities (2020).￼ The role of social support in weight loss maintenance: Results from the MedWeight study. Journal of Behavioral Medicine (2016).￼ Take it like a man: Gender-threatened men’s experience of gender role discrepancy, emotion activation, and pain tolerance. Psychology of Men & Masculinity (2017).￼ An evolutionary perspective on humor: Sexual selection or interest indication? Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin (2009).￼ Shyness and physical attractiveness in mixed-sex dyads. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology (1991).￼ A guide to the treatment of adults with ADHD. Journal of Clinical Psychiatry (2004).￼ The psychology of nice people. Social and Personality Psychology Compass (2010).￼ Are pedophiles treatable? Evidence from North American studies. Journal of Sexual and Mental Health (2008).￼ Physical attractiveness and the “nice guy paradox”: Do nice guys really finish last? Sex Roles (2003).￼ Reflecting on rumination: Consequences, causes, mechanisms and treatment of rumination. Behaviour research and therapy (2020).￼ Why are some people susceptible to Super-Helper Syndrome and what can be done about it? British Journal of Community Nursing (2023).￼ Obsessive–compulsive disorder and romantic functioning. Journal of Clinical Psychology (2007).￼ The neuropsychological rehabilitation of visual agnosia and Balint’s syndrome. Neuropsychological Rehabilitation (2019).￼ Hidden in shame: Heterosexual men’s experiences of self-perceived problematic pornography use. Psychology of Men & Masculinities (2020).￼ The verbal and nonverbal correlates of the five flirting styles. Journal of Nonverbal Behavior (2015).￼ Psychological obstacles to job or career change in late life. The Journals of Gerontology Series B: Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences (1995).￼ Vocal interruptions in dyadic communication as a function of speech and social anxiety. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology (1979).￼ Mild Neurocognitive Disorder: An old wine in a new bottle. Harvard Review of Psychiatry (2015).￼ Sudden impolite behavior in a polite girl: A case report. Acta Medica Iranica (2014).￼ The utility and futility of combining treatments in psychotherapy. Clinical Psychology: Science and Practice (1996).￼ A comparison of semantic memory in vascular dementia and dementia of Alzheimer's type. International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry (1997).￼ Searching for the roots of overprotective parenting in emerging adulthood: Investigating the link with parental attachment representations using an Actor Partner Interdependence Model (APIM). Journal of Child and Family Studies (2017).￼ They love me not: A meta-analysis of relations between parental undifferentiated rejection and offspring’s psychological maladjustment. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology (2019).￼ Are saving appearance responses typical communication patterns in Alzheimer's disease? PLoS One (2018).￼ Finding joy and purpose through singing: Giving voice to people living with dementia. Creative Nursing (2022).￼ Standardized diagnostic interviews, criteria, and algorithms for mental disorders: Garbage in, garbage out. European archives of psychiatry and clinical neuroscience (2012).￼ Awareness of disability and long-term outcome after traumatic brain injury. Rehabilitation Psychology (1998).￼ Role model behavior and youth violence: A study of positive and negative effects. The Journal of Early Adolescence (2011).￼ Substance abuse in performing musicians. Archives of Psychiatry Research (2008).